# Meta

## [Projects](projects.md)

* New: Update information on active projects.

# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helm](helm.md)

* New: Introduce helm-git to install charts directly from git repositories.

### [Helmfile](helmfile.md)

* New: Tell how to make long diffs usable.

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [Kubernetes](kubernetes.md)

* New: Explain jobs, cronjobs and how to monitor them with prometheus.
* New: Explain how to debug cronjob logs.

### [Kubectl](kubectl.md)

* New: Add kubectl command cheatsheet.

## [Continuous Integration](ci.md)

* Reorganization: Split CI documents into their own pages.

### [Black](mypy.md)

* New: Explain how to reveal the type of an expression.
* Improvement: Add git link.
* Correction: Configure black to process long lines.

    Use the `--experimental-string-procesing` flag to process long lines.

* New: Introduce the alex linter.

    [Alex](alex.md) helps you find gender favoring,
    polarizing, race related, religion inconsiderate, or other unequal phrasing
    in
    text.

* New: Explain how to skip one line.
* New: Explain how to fix the Module X has no attribute Y.
* New: Explain how to prevent the formatter on some lines.

### [Yamlfix](flakeheaven.md)

* New: Introduce flakeheaven python linter.

    Flakehell is a [Flake8](flake8.md) wrapper to make it cool.

* Improvement: Annotate the slowness of the bandit tests in pre-commit.
* New: Add yamlfix formatter.

### [Markdownlint](markdownlint.md)

* New: Introduce the markdownlint linter.

    [markdownlint](markdownlint.md) is A linter for Markdown files.

### [Proselint](proselint.md)

* New: Introduce proselint linter.

    [Proselint](https://github.com/amperser/proselint/) is another linter
    for prose.

    feat(write-good) introduce the write-good linter

    [write-good](https://github.com/btford/write-good) is a naive linter for
    English
    prose.

## Automating Processes

### [cookiecutter](cookiecutter.md)

* New: Add cookiecutter template testing guidelines.
* New: Explain how to remove unwanted directories.
* New: Explain how to use a default configuration for all your templates.
* Improvement: Add references on why is not easy to update cookiecutter templates.
* New: Explain how to debug failing cookiecutter tests.

### [cruft](cruft.md)

* New: Introduce cruft tool to manage cookiecutter templates.

    [cruft](https://cruft.github.io/cruft/) allows you to maintain all the
    necessary boilerplate for packaging and building projects separate from the
    code
    you intentionally write. Fully compatible with existing
    [Cookiecutter](cookiecutter.md) templates.

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus](prometheus.md)

* New: Explain how to find a metric name.
* New: Add statistical analysis on instance sizes using prometheus metrics.

    Explain how to configure prometheus to automatically check if your
    instances are of the correct size and which are your bottlenecks.

* New: Explain how to install with docker.
* Reorganization: Move the installation of docker to prometheus install.

### [Node Exporter](node_exporter.md)

* New: Filter out stopped instances.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Add cookiecutter documentation.
* New: Add docker construction for a python project.
* New: Add commit guidelines with commitizen.
* Correction: Type hints of subclasses of abstract classes.
* New: Introduce the python docstrings.
* New: Add python snippets article.

    Includes the generation of OpenSSH keys with the cryptography library

* Improvement: Correct typo in the generation of ssh keys.
* Correction: Add email to the generated ssh snippet.
* New: Explain how to make multiline code look clean.

    Use `textwrap.dedent()` to define variables that require multiline
    strings

* New: Explain how to play a file inside python.
* New: Explain how to save a python object to a string using ruamel parser.
* New: Explain how to do a deep copy of a dictionary.
* New: Explain how to solve the R0201 pylint error.
* New: Do an initial analysis on Python profiling.
* New: Introduce some ideas on optimization of python code.

### [Alembic](alembic.md)

* Correction: Explain how to use alembic from a python scripts and not.

### [Click](click.md)

* New: Explain how to setup and test a click application.
* New: Introduce click arguments.
* New: Explain how to accept options from environmental variables and how to handle contexts.
* Correction: Add note on capturing stderr and stdout with caplog instead of click methods.
* New: Introduce the boolean options and variadic arguments.
* New: Explain how to use a default command to a click group.
* New: Improve arguments documentation.

    * Add example on how to use variadic arguments.
    * Explain how to use File and Path click arguments

* New: Explain how to set the allowable values for an argument.
* New: Explain how to hide a command from the --help output.

### [Dash](dash.md)

* New: Introduce dash and dash-leaflet.

    Explain how to initiate dash and how to create a map with dash-leaflet

* New: Explain how to interact with programs that ask for user input.

### [Type Hints](type_hints.md)

* New: Improve the definition of objects with multiple types with TypeVar.
* New: Explain how to use the TypedDict instead of Dict.

    Useful if the different keys have different types

### [Code Styling](deepdiff.md)

* New: Introduce the deepdiff library.
* New: Explain how to fix the Pylint R0201 error.
* New: Explain why we can safely ignore W1203.

### [FactoryBoy](factoryboy.md)

* Correction: Add warning that generating your own attributes doesn't work anymore.

### [Faker](faker.md)

* New: Explain how to populate the faker fixture with random seeds.
* Correction: Improve the way of generating random seed.

### [Folium](folium.md)

* New: Explain how to use folium, change tileset and load data.
* Correction: Change the order of the layers.

    Openstreetmaps is more clear than the IGN, so the waypoints are better
    seen

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: Explain what fixtures are.
* New: Tell how to use a fixture more than once in a function.
* New: Document the capsys, caplog and tmpdir builtin fixtures.
* New: Add freezegun fixture.
* New: Explain how to save the fixtures into a separate file.
* New: Explain the different parametrization options. Introduce the awesome pytest-cases.
* New: Explain how to use marks to group the tests.
* New: Explain how to test error raising with pytest.
* Improvement: Solve W0621 Redefining name %r from outer scope (line %s) error.
* New: Explain how to change the log level with the caplog.
* Correction: Add link to the unpack_fixture section.
* Correction: Explain how to better use with pytest.raises snippets.

    To capture the message in a cleaner way

### [mkdocstrings](mkdocstrings.md)

* New: Introduce the mkdocstrings library.

    [mkdocstrings](https://pawamoy.github.io/mkdocstrings) is a library to
    automatically generate [mkdocs](mkdocs.md) pages from the code docstrings.

### [Passpy](passpy.md)

* New: Introduce the passpy library.

    [passpy](https://github.com/bfrascher/passpy) a platform independent
    library and
    cli that is compatible with [ZX2C4's pass](http://www.passwordstore.org/).

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: Introduce pydantic with it's models and types.
* New: Explain how validators work.
* New: Explain how to export the models.
* New: Explain how to validate functions and use the mypy plugin.
* New: Explain how to initialize empty iterables on attributes.
* New: Explain how to solve the E0611 error.
* Correction: Explain how to solve the E0611 error in code lines.
* Correction: Correct pylint R0201 on pydantic models.

### [Pypika](pypika.md)

* New: Introduce pypika.
* New: Explain how to select, filter and delete data.

### [sqlite3](sqlite3.md)

* New: Introduce the sqlite python library.
* New: Explain how to get the columns of a sqlite3 query.

### [Talkey](talkey.md)

* New: Introduce text to speech python library.

### [Yoyo](yoyo.md)

* New: Introduce yoyo database migration tool.
* New: Explain how to do yoyo table relationships.

## [JSON](json.md)

* New: Add json linters and fixers.

## [SQL](sql.md)

* New: Introduce the sql data types.

## [SQLite](sqlite.md)

* New: Introduce sqlite and it's upsert feature.

# Software Architecture

## [Domain Driven Design](domain_driven_design.md)

* New: Explain how to inject fake dependencies into e2e tests with click.

### [Repository Pattern](repository_pattern.md)

* New: Warn about the definition of attributes created by the ORMs.

# Life Management

## [Strategy](strategy.md)

* New: Introduce strategy document.

    Differentiate between strategic planning and strategic thinking

# Health

## [Sleep](sleep.md)

* New: Explain the benefits of sleep, the consequences of lack of sleep and the physiological effects of sleep including the circadian rhythm and what is melatonin.
* New: Explain sleep pressure, caffeine and the relationship with the circadian rhythm.
* New: Explain the independence between circadian and sleep pressure.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [HAProxy](haproxy.md)

* New: Introduce haproxy and how to do a reverse proxy with it.

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* Correction: Correct meditation navigation element.

### [monica](monica.md)

* New: Add monica installation.

### [Vim](vim.md)

* New: Add ale language server processor Vim plugin.
* New: Add only part of files to the index to stage.
* New: Create ALEToggleFixer command to enable/disable fixers.
* New: Make fugitive commit workflow more user friendly.
* Correction: Add movement mappings for the commit message window.
* New: Explain how to use YouCompleteMe to complete prose.
* Correction: Explain how to limit the autosuggestion results to one when writing prose.
* New: Explain how to search synonyms inside vim.
* Correction: Improve the environment to write commits with more bindings and restoring bindings once you close the message.
* New: Explain how to manage python foldings.

### [ZFS](zfs.md)

* New: Introduce zfs and some basic commands.

# Arts

## [Writing](writing.md)

* New: Add there is/are avoidance pattern.
* New: Explain the guidelines and tools I use for writing.

## [Meditation](meditation.md)

* New: Define meditation and it's types.

## Video Gaming

### [The Battle for Wesnoth](wesnoth.md)

* New: Explain how to play the loyalist civilization.

# Other

* New: Add sh awesome library.
* Correction: Fix broken links.
* New: Add factoryboy factory usage.
* New: Add the xy problem.
* New: Add tinydb documentation.
* New: Add prevent cookiecutter from processing some files docs.
* New: Add first cutting shapes steps.
* Correction: Improve the changelog generation with commitizen.
* Correction: Remove unwanted gifs on rave dances.
* New: Add kicking-running man and tap spin.
* New: Prevent additional whitespaces when jinja condition is not met.
* Correction: Correct the running man.
* New: Add how to keep historical data on database table changes.
* New: List all process swap space usage.
* New: Introduce the click python library.
* New: Add more steps.

    * Quick tempo running man
    * Quick tempo T-Step
    * Francis T-Step
    * Sacco kicks

* New: Add Francis spin and first version of dance routine.

    Corrected how to reach the quick tempo running man.

* New: More guidelines on how to speed up the running man.

    And refactor in different files

* New: Add times for next steps to learn.
* New: Added ash, birch and beech description.
* New: Introduce wireguard.
* New: Explain how to debug elasticsearch yellow state.
* Correction: Update python ci docs.
* New: Explain how to solve cyclic imports when using type hints.
* New: Evaluate the different solutions to programmatically interact with databases.
* Correction: Remove xkcd image.
* Reorganization: Extract type hints to it's own file.
* New: Bump material version to 6.0.2.

    Also take the chance to move images directory to img

* Correction: Correct repository pattern images path.
* Correction: Correct image paths.
* Correction: Add note on the flexibility of query builders.
* Correction: Remove type hints from python code styling.
* New: Explain the use of Generic typing.
* Correction: Correct domain driven design image path.
* Correction: Remove broken links.
* New: Explain how to make your python packages mypy compliant.
* Correction: Explain how to remove all pip packages from a virtualenv.
* Correction: Discourage the use of pip-tools in the CI.
* Correction: Explain how to get started.
* Correction: References between articles.
* New: Explain how to fix W0707 mypy error.
* New: Introduce wesnoth, and the northerners and rebels civilizations.
* New: Explain how to use Wake on Lan.
* New: Explain how to use TypeVar to specify children class.
* New: Explain how to solve W0106 in list comprehensions.
* New: Explain how to solve SIM105.
