# DevOps

## Continuous Integration

### [Black](mypy.md)

* New: Explain how to fix the Module X has no attribute Y.
* New: Explain how to prevent the formatter on some lines.

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus](prometheus.md)

* New: Explain how to install with docker.
* Reorganization: Move the installation of docker to prometheus install.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Explain how to do a deep copy of a dictionary.
* New: Explain how to solve the R0201 pylint error.
* New: Do an initial analysis on Python profiling.
* New: Introduce some ideas on optimization of python code.

### [Click](click.md)

* New: Explain how to set the allowable values for an argument.
* New: Explain how to hide a command from the --help output.

### [Dash](python_sh.md)

* New: Explain how to interact with programs that ask for user input.

### [Type Hints](type_hints.md)

* New: Explain how to use the TypedDict instead of Dict.

    Useful if the different keys have different types

### [Code Styling](python_code_styling.md)

* New: Explain how to fix the Pylint R0201 error.
* New: Explain why we can safely ignore W1203.

### [FactoryBoy](factoryboy.md)

* Correction: Add warning that generating your own attributes doesn't work anymore.

### [Faker](faker.md)

* Correction: Improve the way of generating random seed.

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: Explain how to change the log level with the caplog.
* Correction: Add link to the unpack_fixture section.
* Correction: Explain how to better use with pytest.raises snippets.

    To capture the message in a cleaner way

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: Explain how to solve the E0611 error.
* Correction: Explain how to solve the E0611 error in code lines.
* Correction: Correct pylint R0201 on pydantic models.

### [Pypika](pypika.md)

* New: Explain how to select, filter and delete data.

### [sqlite3](sqlite3.md)

* New: Introduce the sqlite python library.
* New: Explain how to get the columns of a sqlite3 query.

## [SQLite](sqlite.md)

* New: Introduce sqlite and it's upsert feature.

# Software Architecture

## [Domain Driven Design](domain_driven_design.md)

* New: Explain how to inject fake dependencies into e2e tests with click.

# Life Management

## [Strategy](strategy.md)

* New: Introduce strategy document.

    Differentiate between strategic planning and strategic thinking

# Health

## [Sleep](sleep.md)

* New: Explain the independence between circadian and sleep pressure.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Vim](vim.md)

* New: Explain how to manage python foldings.

# Arts

## Video Gaming

### [The Battle for Wesnoth](wesnoth.md)

* New: Explain how to play the loyalist civilization.

# Other

* New: Explain how to fix W0707 mypy error.
* New: Introduce wesnoth, and the northerners and rebels civilizations.
* New: Explain how to use Wake on Lan.
* New: Explain how to use TypeVar to specify children class.
* New: Explain how to solve W0106 in list comprehensions.
* New: Explain how to solve SIM105.