# DevOps

## [Continuous Integration](ci.md)

* Reorganization: Split CI documents into their own pages.

### [Black](black.md)

* Improvement: Add git link.
* Correction: Configure black to process long lines.

    Use the `--experimental-string-procesing` flag to process long lines.

### [Bandit](flakeheaven.md)

* New: Introduce flakeheaven python linter.

    Flakehell is a [Flake8](flake8.md) wrapper to make it cool.

* Improvement: Annotate the slowness of the bandit tests in pre-commit.

## Automating Processes

### [cookiecutter](cookiecutter.md)

* New: Explain how to use a default configuration for all your templates.
* Improvement: Add references on why is not easy to update cookiecutter templates.

### [cruft](cruft.md)

* New: Introduce cruft tool to manage cookiecutter templates.

    [cruft](https://cruft.github.io/cruft/) allows you to maintain all the
    necessary boilerplate for packaging and building projects separate from the
    code
    you intentionally write. Fully compatible with existing
    [Cookiecutter](cookiecutter.md) templates.

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus](prometheus.md)

* New: Explain how to find a metric name.
* New: Add statistical analysis on instance sizes using prometheus metrics.

    Explain how to configure prometheus to automatically check if your
    instances are of the correct size and which are your bottlenecks.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Introduce the python docstrings.
* New: Add python snippets article.

    Includes the generation of OpenSSH keys with the cryptography library

* Improvement: Correct typo in the generation of ssh keys.

### [Click](click.md)

* New: Improve arguments documentation.

    * Add example on how to use variadic arguments.
    * Explain how to use File and Path click arguments

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: Explain how to save the fixtures into a separate file.
* New: Explain the different parametrization options. Introduce the awesome pytest-cases.
* New: Explain how to use marks to group the tests.
* New: Explain how to test error raising with pytest.
* Improvement: Solve W0621 Redefining name %r from outer scope (line %s) error.

### [mkdocstrings](mkdocstrings.md)

* New: Introduce the mkdocstrings library.

    [mkdocstrings](https://pawamoy.github.io/mkdocstrings) is a library to
    automatically generate [mkdocs](mkdocs.md) pages from the code docstrings.

### [Passpy](passpy.md)

* New: Introduce the passpy library.

    [passpy](https://github.com/bfrascher/passpy) a platform independent
    library and
    cli that is compatible with [ZX2C4's pass](http://www.passwordstore.org/).

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: Introduce pydantic with it's models and types.
* New: Explain how validators work.
* New: Explain how to export the models.
* New: Explain how to validate functions and use the mypy plugin.
* New: Explain how to initialize empty iterables on attributes.

### [Pypika](pypika.md)

* New: Introduce pypika.

### [Yoyo](yoyo.md)

* New: Introduce yoyo database migration tool.
* New: Explain how to do yoyo table relationships.

## [SQL](sql.md)

* New: Introduce the sql data types.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [HAProxy](haproxy.md)

* New: Introduce haproxy and how to do a reverse proxy with it.

### [ZFS](zfs.md)

* New: Introduce zfs and some basic commands.

# Other

* New: Evaluate the different solutions to programmatically interact with databases.
* Correction: Remove xkcd image.
* Reorganization: Extract type hints to it's own file.
* New: Bump material version to 6.0.2.

    Also take the chance to move images directory to img

* Correction: Correct repository pattern images path.
* Correction: Correct image paths.
* Correction: Add note on the flexibility of query builders.
* Correction: Remove type hints from python code styling.
* New: Explain the use of Generic typing.
* Correction: Correct domain driven design image path.
* Correction: Remove broken links.
* New: Explain how to make your python packages mypy compliant.
* Correction: Explain how to remove all pip packages from a virtualenv.
* Correction: Discourage the use of pip-tools in the CI.