# Meta

## [Projects](projects.md)

* New: Update information on active projects.

# DevOps

## Continuous Integration

### [Alex](alex.md)

* New: Introduce the alex linter.

    [Alex](alex.md) helps you find gender favoring,
    polarizing, race related, religion inconsiderate, or other unequal phrasing
    in
    text.

### [Markdownlint](markdownlint.md)

* New: Introduce the markdownlint linter.

    [markdownlint](markdownlint.md) is A linter for Markdown files.

### [Proselint](proselint.md)

* New: Introduce proselint linter.

    [Proselint](https://github.com/amperser/proselint/) is another linter
    for prose.

    feat(write-good) introduce the write-good linter

    [write-good](https://github.com/btford/write-good) is a naive linter for
    English
    prose.

## Automating Processes

### [cookiecutter](cookiecutter.md)

* New: Explain how to debug failing cookiecutter tests.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* Correction: Add email to the generated ssh snippet.
* New: Explain how to make multiline code look clean.

    Use `textwrap.dedent()` to define variables that require multiline
    strings

### [Dash](dash.md)

* New: Introduce dash and dash-leaflet.

    Explain how to initiate dash and how to create a map with dash-leaflet

### [Folium](folium.md)

* Correction: Change the order of the layers.

    Openstreetmaps is more clear than the IGN, so the waypoints are better
    seen

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Vim](vim.md)

* New: Create ALEToggleFixer command to enable/disable fixers.
* New: Make fugitive commit workflow more user friendly.
* Correction: Add movement mappings for the commit message window.

# Arts

## [Writing](writing.md)

* New: Explain the guidelines and tools I use for writing.
