# Meta

## [Projects](projects.md)

* New: Update information on active projects.

# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helm](helm.md)

* New: Introduce helm-git to install charts directly from git repositories.

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [Kubernetes](kubernetes.md)

* New: Explain jobs, cronjobs and how to monitor them with prometheus.
* New: Explain how to debug cronjob logs.

### [Kubectl](kubectl.md)

* New: Add kubectl command cheatsheet.

## Continuous Integration

### [Mypy](alex.md)

* New: Introduce the alex linter.

    [Alex](alex.md) helps you find gender favoring,
    polarizing, race related, religion inconsiderate, or other unequal phrasing
    in
    text.

* New: Explain how to skip one line.

### [Yamlfix](yamlfix.md)

* New: Add yamlfix formatter.

### [Markdownlint](markdownlint.md)

* New: Introduce the markdownlint linter.

    [markdownlint](markdownlint.md) is A linter for Markdown files.

### [Proselint](proselint.md)

* New: Introduce proselint linter.

    [Proselint](https://github.com/amperser/proselint/) is another linter
    for prose.

    feat(write-good) introduce the write-good linter

    [write-good](https://github.com/btford/write-good) is a naive linter for
    English
    prose.

## Automating Processes

### [cookiecutter](cookiecutter.md)

* New: Explain how to debug failing cookiecutter tests.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* Correction: Add email to the generated ssh snippet.
* New: Explain how to make multiline code look clean.

    Use `textwrap.dedent()` to define variables that require multiline
    strings

* New: Explain how to play a file inside python.
* New: Explain how to save a python object to a string using ruamel parser.

### [Dash](dash.md)

* New: Introduce dash and dash-leaflet.

    Explain how to initiate dash and how to create a map with dash-leaflet

### [Folium](folium.md)

* New: Explain how to use folium, change tileset and load data.
* Correction: Change the order of the layers.

    Openstreetmaps is more clear than the IGN, so the waypoints are better
    seen

### [Talkey](talkey.md)

* New: Introduce text to speech python library.

# Health

## [Sleep](sleep.md)

* New: Explain the benefits of sleep, the consequences of lack of sleep and the physiological effects of sleep including the circadian rhythm and what is melatonin.
* New: Explain sleep pressure, caffeine and the relationship with the circadian rhythm.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* Correction: Correct meditation navigation element.

### [Vim](vim.md)

* New: Create ALEToggleFixer command to enable/disable fixers.
* New: Make fugitive commit workflow more user friendly.
* Correction: Add movement mappings for the commit message window.
* New: Explain how to use YouCompleteMe to complete prose.
* Correction: Explain how to limit the autosuggestion results to one when writing prose.
* New: Explain how to search synonyms inside vim.
* Correction: Improve the environment to write commits with more bindings and restoring bindings once you close the message.

# Arts

## [Writing](writing.md)

* New: Explain the guidelines and tools I use for writing.

## [Meditation](meditation.md)

* New: Define meditation and it's types.

# Other

* Correction: Explain how to get started.
* Correction: References between articles.
