# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helmfile](helmfile.md)

* New: Tell how to make long diffs usable.

## Continuous Integration

### [Mypy](mypy.md)

* New: Explain how to reveal the type of an expression.

## Automating Processes

### [cookiecutter](cookiecutter.md)

* New: Explain how to remove unwanted directories.

## Monitoring

### [Node Exporter](node_exporter.md)

* New: Filter out stopped instances.

# Coding

## Python

### [Alembic](alembic.md)

* Correction: Explain how to use alembic from a python scripts and not.

### [Click](click.md)

* New: Explain how to setup and test a click application.
* New: Introduce click arguments.
* New: Explain how to accept options from environmental variables and how to handle contexts.
* Correction: Add note on capturing stderr and stdout with caplog instead of click methods.

### [Faker](faker.md)

* New: Explain how to populate the faker fixture with random seeds.

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: Explain what fixtures are.
* New: Tell how to use a fixture more than once in a function.
* New: Document the capsys, caplog and tmpdir builtin fixtures.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [monica](monica.md)

* New: Add monica installation.

### [Vim](vim.md)

* New: Add only part of files to the index to stage.

# Other

* New: Add first cutting shapes steps.
* Correction: Improve the changelog generation with commitizen.
* Correction: Remove unwanted gifs on rave dances.
* New: Add kicking-running man and tap spin.
* New: Prevent additional whitespaces when jinja condition is not met.
* Correction: Correct the running man.
* New: Add how to keep historical data on database table changes.
* New: List all process swap space usage.
* New: Introduce the click python library.