# [Introduction](index.md)

* Reorganization: Merge the Meta article into the index.

# [Projects](projects.md)

* Improvement: [Add mkdocs-newsletter as a dormant plant.](projects.md#mkdocs-newsletter)

    MkDocs plugin to show the changes of documentation repositories in
    a user friendly format, at the same time that it's easy for the authors
    to maintain.
    
    It creates daily, weekly, monthly and yearly newsletter articles with
    the changes of each period. Those pages, stored under the `Newsletters`
    section, are filled with the changes extracted from the commit messages
    of the git history.  The changes are grouped by categories,
    subcategories and then by file using the order of the site's navigation
    structure. RSS feeds are also created for each newsletter type, so it's
    easy for people to keep updated with the evolution of the site.

* Reorganization: Update and reorganize projects.

    Following the [digital garden](digital_garden.md) metaphor
    

* Reorganization: [Merge the wish_list article into the projects.](projects.md#seeds)
* New: Add seed to follow the updates of software.
* New: Add seed to automatically update the dockers of maintained services.

# Coding

## [Issues](issues.md)

* New: Jellyfin 10.7.1 broke the login page.

    Don't upgrade till it's solved, as the rollback is not easy.

* Correction: Jellyfin login page problem after upgrade to 10.7.X is solved.

    Surprisingly the instructions in
    [#5489](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin/issues/5489) solved it.
    
    ```bash
    systemctl stop jellyfin.service
    mv /var/lib/jellyfin/data/jellyfin.db{,.bak}
    systemctl start jellyfin.service
    
    [ Go to JF URL, get asked to log in even though there are no Users in the JF DB now]
    
    systemctl stop jellyfin.service
    mv /var/lib/jellyfin/data/jellyfin.db{.bak,}
    systemctl start jellyfin.service
    ```

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md)

* New: Explain how to reindex an index.

### [Jellyfin](jellyfin.md)

* New: Introduce the media system and monitor interesting issues.

    [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/) is a Free Software Media System that puts you
    in control of managing and streaming your media. It is an alternative to the
    proprietary Emby and Plex, to provide media from a dedicated server to end-user
    devices via multiple apps. Jellyfin is descended from Emby's 3.5.2 release and
    ported to the .NET Core framework to enable full cross-platform support. There
    are no strings attached, no premium licenses or features, and no hidden agendas:
    just a team who want to build something better and work together to achieve it.
    

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* New: [Explain additions of version 7.1.0 of the material theme.](mkdocs.md#material-theme-customizations)

    * [Dark-light mode switch](mkdocs.md#color-palette-toggle).
    * [Back to top button](mkdocs.md#back-to-top-button).