# DevOps

## Monitoring

### [Monitoring Comparison](monitoring_comparison.md)

* New: Compare Nagios and Prometheus as monitoring.
* Correction: Improve the comparison.

    * State that nagios is not easy to configure. If you're used to it it
        is, otherwise it's not.
    * Add that grafana has a huge community building graphs.
    * Mention Thanos as the long term storage solution for Prometheus.

* Correction: Add the insights of a nagios power user.

    * Update open source and community analysis with nagios exchange.
    * Correct nagios community analysis with its trajectory
    * Correct the analysis of the high availability of nagios
    * Add the option to host the script exporter in a dedicated server

# Coding

## Python

### [GitPython](gitpython.md)

* Improvement: Explain how to get the working directory of a repo.

    Using the `working_dir` attribute.

### [Jinja2](python_jinja2.md)

* New: Explain how to use Jinja2.

    [Jinja2](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com) is a modern and designer-
    friendly
    templating language for Python, modelled after Django’s templates. It is
    fast,
    widely used and secure with the optional sandboxed template execution
    environment.

    Add installation, usage and basic and advanced template guidelines.

## [Issues](issues.md)

* New: Add today's issues.

    * Gadgetbridge improvements
    * Ombi improvements

* Improvement: Monitor today's issues.

    * Mkdocs migration to 7.x is giving errors with the search bar and repo
    stats.

# Life Management

## Automation

### [Amazfit Band 5](amazfit_band_5.md)

* New: Add insights on sleep detection.

    The sleep tracking using Gadgetbridge is not [good at
    all](https://codeberg.org/Freeyourgadget/Gadgetbridge/wiki/Huami-Deep-Sleep-
    Detection).
    After two nights, the band has not been able to detect when I woke in the
    middle
    of the night, or when I really woke up, as I usually stay in the bed for a
    time
    before standing up. I'll try with the proprietary application soon and
    compare results.

* New: Explain how to upgrade the firmware.

    Gadgetbridge people have a [guide on how to upgrade the
    firmware](https://codeberg.org/Freeyourgadget/Gadgetbridge/wiki/Amazfit-
    Band-5-Firmware-Update),
    you need to get the firmware from the [geek doing
    forum](https://geekdoing.com/threads/amazfit-band-5-original-firmwares-
    resources-fonts.2331/)
    though, so it is interesting to create an account and watch the post.

* Improvement: Add insights on sleep tracking.

    You can't use the Withings sleep analyzer without their app (as
    expected), maybe the [Emfit
    QS](https://github.com/karlicoss/HPI/blob/master/my/emfit/__init__.py)
    is the way to go.

### [Fitness Tracker](fitness_band.md)

* New: Introduce the fitness band in your life automation.

    [Fitness tracker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Activity_tracker) or
    activity
    trackers are devices or applications for monitoring and tracking fitness-
    related
    metrics such as distance walked or run, calorie consumption, and in some
    cases
    heartbeat. It is a type of wearable computer.

    Explain also why it's interesting

# Operative Systems

## Android

### [GadgetBridge](gadgetbridge.md)

* New: Add more guidelines to reverse engineer the band protocol.

# Other

* Correction: Deprecate mkdocs issues.

    They've been fixed in the last release
