# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Explain how to check if a loop ends completely.
* New: Explain how to merge lists and dictionaries.
* New: Explain how to create your own exceptions.

### [Libraries](requests_mock.md)

* New: Explain how to set cookies and headers in responses.

### [FactoryBoy](factoryboy.md)

* New: Explain how to generate your own attributes.

    We earlier used lazy_attribute but if you want to use Faker inside the
    attribute definition, you're going to have a bad time. The new solution
    uses the creation of custom Fake providers.

### [Faker](faker.md)

* New: Explain how to create your own provider.

    Useful to generate custom objects for testing purposes.

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* Correction: Explain how to show the message in custom exceptions.
* New: Explain how to import a module or object from within a python program.

### [pexpect](pexpect.md)

* New: Introduce the pexpect python library.

    A pure Python module for spawning
    child applications; controlling them; and responding to expected patterns in
    their output. Pexpect works like Don Libes’ Expect. Pexpect allows your
    script
    to spawn a child application and control it as if a human were typing
    commands.

### [Prompt Toolkit](prompt_toolkit.md)

* New: Introduce the tui python library.

    Useful to build text-based user interfaces, it allows the creation of
    intelligent prompts, dialogs, and full screen ncurses-like applications.

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: Warn on the lack of TypeDict support.

### [questionary](questionary.md)

* New: Introduce tui python library.

    [questionary](https://questionary.readthedocs.io) is a Python library
    for effortlessly building pretty command line interfaces. It makes it
    very easy to query your user for input.

### [Requests](requests.md)

* New: Introduce the requests python library.

### [Rq](rq.md)

* New: Add note to test arq.

    arq is a similar library that can be better.

# Life Management

## Automation

### [Accounting Automation](money_management.md)

* New: Explain my accounting automation workflow.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [beancount](beancount.md)

* New: Introduce the cli double entry accounting program.
* New: Add links on how to use as a library.
* Correction: Correct the git repository link.

## Android

### [cone](cone.md)

* New: Introduce the mobile double entry accounting application.
* Correction: Correct the description of the transaction to be beancount compatible.
