# DevOps

## Continuous Integration

### [Flakehell](flakeheaven.md)

* Correction: Update the git repository.

    The existent repository has been archived in favor of [this one](https://github.com/flakeheaven/flakeheaven)

# Coding

## Python

### [Boto3](boto3.md)

* New: Introduce the AWS SDK library and explain how to test it.

    [Boto3](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/index.html) is
    the AWS SDK for Python to create, configure, and manage AWS services,
    such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) and Amazon Simple Storage
    Service (Amazon S3). The SDK provides an object-oriented API as well as
    low-level access to AWS services.
    
    For [testing](boto3.md#testing), try to use [moto](boto3.md#moto), using the [Botocore's stubber](https://botocore.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/stubber.html) as fallback option.

### [DeepDiff](deepdiff.md)

* Improvement: Remove advice to use my fork instead.

    The original one has already merged my [PR](https://github.com/seperman/deepdiff/pull/239) `＼\ ٩( ᐛ )و /／`. Beware though as the `regexp` are not enabled by default (against my will). You need to use the `use_regexp=True` as an argument to `grep` or `DeepSearch`.

### [FactoryBoy](factoryboy.md)

* New: [Explain how to use `Enum` with factoryboy.](factoryboy.md#word-from-enum-choices)

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* Correction: [Add warning about the method to use direct dependencies.](python_snippets.md#install-a-python-dependency-from-a-git-repository)

    Last time I used this solution, when I added the library on a `setup.py`
    the direct dependencies weren't installed :S

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: [Explain how to update entity attributes with a dictionary.](pydantic.md#update-entity-attributes-with-a-dictionary)

    You can create a new object with the new data using the `update`
    argument of the `copy` entity method.

# Arts

## [Writing](writing.md)

* New: [Explain when to use I'm good or I'm well.](writing.md#im-good-or-im-well)

    Use I'm well when referring to being ill, use I'm good for the rest.
    

# Other

* New: Explain how to select a random choice from `Enum` objects.

    [pydantic](pydantic.md) uses `Enum` objects to define [the choices of
    fields](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/usage/types/#enums-and-choices), so
    we need them to create the factories of those objects.