# [Projects](projects.md)

* New: [Explain the idea of how to improve the record of ideas, tasks,.](projects.md#inbox-management)
* New: Add git-bug as an interesting distributed issue tracker.
* New: [Add the Improve the reliability of the Open Science collections project.](projects.md#improve-the-reliability-of-the-open-science-collections)

    The current [free knowledge efforts](free_knowledge.md): are based on the health
    of a collection of torrents. This project aims to create a command line
    tool or service that makes it easier to automate the seeding of ill
    torrents.

* New: [Add the Monitor and notify on disk prices project.](projects.md#monitor-and-notify-on-disk-prices)

    [Diskprices.com](https://diskprices.com/) sorts the prices of the disks on the
    different amazon sites based on many filters. It will be interesting to have
    a service that monitors the data on this site and alerts the user once there is
    a deal that matches its criteria.
    

* Reorganization: [Move the automation of computer file management project to the projects page.](projects.md#automating-computer-file-management)
* Reorganization: Move the dying projects below the seeds as they are less important.

# [Coding](vuejs.md)

* New: Introduce Vue.js.

    [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org) is a progressive framework for building user
    interfaces.

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Add parso library to interesting libraries to explore.

    [parso](https://github.com/davidhalter/parso) is a library to parse Python code.
    

### [Boto3](boto3.md)

* New: [Explain how to test IAM users and groups.](boto3.md#test-iam-users)
* Improvement: Monitor motor issue with the `cn-north-1` rds and autoscaling endpoints.

### [Configure Docker to host the application](type_hints.md)

* Improvement: [Explain how to define the type hints of functions and methods that use subclasses.](type_hints.md#allow-any-subclass)

    It's a complex topic that has taken me many months to get it right :).

* New: [Explain how to write type hints for generator functions.](type_hints.md#type-hints-of-generators)
* New: Explain how to log in using pass.

    ```bash
    pass show dockerhub | docker login --username foo --password-stdin
    ```

* New: Explain how not to store the credentials in plaintext.

    It doesn't work, don't go this painful road and assume that docker is broken.
    
    The official steps are horrible, and once you've spent two hours debugging
    them, you [won't be able to push or pull images with your
    user](https://github.com/docker/docker-credential-helpers/issues/154).

### [FastAPI](fastapi.md)

* New: [Explain how to deploy it using Docker.](fastapi.md#deploy-with-docker)
* New: [Explain how to show logging messages in the logs.](fastapi.md#logging)

## [Writing good documentation](documentation.md)

* New: Start explaining how to write good documentation for a software project.

    It doesn't matter how good your program is, because if its documentation is not
    good enough, people will not use it.
    
    People working with software need different kinds of documentation at different
    times, in different circumstances, so good software documentation needs them
    all. In this first iteration, I define the five kinds of documentation,
    and give the ideas to write good introduction and get started sections.

# DevOps

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [Jobs](kubernetes_jobs.md)

* Improvement: Remove false positive alerts on failed jobs that succeeded.

    A Kubernetes cronjob spawns jobs, if the first one fails, it will try to spawn a new one. If the second succeeds, the cronjob status should be success, but with the rule we had before, a successful job with failed past jobs will still raise an alert.
    

# [Life Management](life_management.md)

* Reorganization: Split the life automation article into life management and process automation.

    I understand life management as the act of analyzing yourself and your
    interactions with the world to define processes and automations that shape the
    way to efficiently achieve your goals.
    
    I understand process automation as the act of analyzing yourself and your
    interactions with the world to find the way to reduce the time or willpower
    spent on your life processes.

## [Time Management](time_management.md)

* New: Introduce the time management concept.

    [Time management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_management) is the process
    of planning and exercising conscious control of time spent on specific
    activities, especially to increase effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity.
    It involves a juggling act of various demands upon a person relating to work,
    social life, family, hobbies, personal interests, and commitments with the
    finiteness of time. Using time effectively gives the person "choice" on spending
    or managing activities at their own time and expediency.

* New: Start analyzing the ways to reduce the time spent doing unproductive tasks.

    By [minimizing the context switches](time_management.md#minimize-the-context-switches) and [managing the interruptions](time_management.md#interruption-management).

* Improvement: [Explain how to improve your efficiency by better using your everyday tools.](time_management.md#tool-management)
* Improvement: Add two more ways to avoid loosing time in unproductive tasks.

    * [Avoid lost time doing nothing](time_management.md#avoid-lost-time-doing-nothing).
    * [Fix your environment](time_management.md#fix-your-environment).
    

* New: [Explain how to manage meetings efficiently.](time_management.md#meetings)
* New: [Explain how to improve efficiency by taking care of yourself.](time_management.md#improve-your-state)
* New: [Explain how to prevent blocks by efficiently switching mental processes.](time_management.md#don't-wait,-switch-task)

## [Task Management](task_management.md)

* New: Introduce the task management concept.

    [Task management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Task_management) is the process
    of managing a task through its life cycle. It involves planning, testing,
    tracking, and reporting. Task management can help either individual achieve
    goals, or groups of individuals collaborate and share knowledge for the
    accomplishment of collective goals.

* Improvement: Introduce the main task management tools.

    The [inbox](task_management.md#inbox) does not refer only to your e-mail
    inbox. It is a broader concept that includes all the elements you have
    collected in different ways: tasks you have to do, ideas you have
    thought of, notes, bills, business cards, etc…
    
    The [task manager](task_management.md#task-manager) tool to make your
    interaction with the tasks easier. You can start with the [simplest task
    manager](task_management.md#the-simplest-task-manager), a markdown file
    in your computer with a list of tasks to do. Annotate only the
    actionable tasks that you need to do today, otherwise it can quickly
    grow to be unmanageable.

* Improvement: Add the benefits when you do task management well, and the side effects if you do it wrong.
* Improvement: Add a small guide on how to introduce yourself into task management.

### [Task Management Workflows](task_workflows.md)

* New: Introduce the main task management workflows.

    Task management can be done at different levels. All of them help you in
    different ways to reduce the mental load, each also gives you extra benefits
    that can't be gained by the others. Going from lowest to highest abstraction
    level we have:
    
    * Pomodoro.
    * Task plan.
    * Day plan.
    * Week plan.
    * Month plan.
    * Semester plan.
    
    In the commit I've detailed the [Pomodoro technique](task_workflows.md#pomodoro) and the [task](task_workflows.md#task-plan), [day](task_workflows.md#day-plan) and [week](task_workflows.md#week-plan) plans.

* New: [Explain the difference of surfing the hype flow versus following a defined plan.](task_workflows.md#hype-flow-versus-a-defined-plan)

## [Interruption Management](interruption_management.md)

* New: Introduce the interruption management concept.

    Interruption management is the [life management](life_management.md) area that
    gathers the processes to minimize the time and willpower toll consumed by
    interruptions.
    
    The article proposes a way to analyze your existent interruptions and define how can you improve your interaction with them. I've applied it both to my [work](work_interruption_analysis.md) and [personal](personal_interruption_analysis.md) interruptions.

* Improvement: [Explain what to do once you have the interruption analysis.](interruption_management.md#workflow)

### [Work Interruption Analysis](work_interruption_analysis.md)

* Improvement: Add analysis of instant message interruptions.

### [Personal Interruption Analysis](personal_interruption_analysis.md)

* Improvement: Add analysis of instant message interruptions.

## [Money Management](money_management.md)

* Reorganization: Move the accounting automation to money management.

## [Tool Management](tool_management.md)

* New: Introduce the tool management section.

    Most of the tasks or processes we do involve some kind of tool, the better you
    know how to use them, the better your efficiency will be. The more you use
    a tool, the more it's worth the investment of time to improve your usage of it.
    
    Whenever I use a tool, I try to think if I could configure it or use it in a way
    that will make it easier or quicker. Don't go crazy and try to change everything. Go
    step by step, and once you've internalized the improvement, implement the next.
    

### [Email Management](email_management.md)

* New: Explain how I configure and interact with email efficiently.

### [Instant Messages Management](instant_messages_management.md)

* New: Explain how I configure and interact with chat applications efficiently.

## [Process Automation](process_automation.md)

* Improvement: Add xkcd comics that gather the essence and pitfalls of process automation.

# Activism

## [Free Knowledge](free_knowledge.md)

* New: Introduce how to contribute to the free knowledge initiative.

    One of the early principles of the internet has been to make knowledge free to everyone. [Alexandra Elbakyan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexandra_Elbakyan) of [Sci-Hub](https://sci-hub.do/), bookwarrior of [Library Genesis](https://libgen.fun/), [Aaron Swartz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Swartz), and countless unnamed others have fought to free science from the grips of for-profit publishers.  Today, they do it working in hiding, alone, without acknowledgment, in fear of imprisonment, and even now wiretapped by the FBI. They sacrifice everything for one vision: Open Science.
    
    If you want to know how to contribute, check the [article](free_knowledge.md).

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Explain how to check if an rsync command has gone well.](linux_snippets.md#check-if-an-rsync-command-has-gone-well)

    Run `diff -r --brief source/ dest/`, and check that there is no output.

### [Vim Plugins](vim_plugins.md)

* Improvement: [Explain how to configure the vim-easymotion movement keys.](vim_plugins.md#vim-easymotion)

### [Gajim](gajim.md)

* New: Introduce gajim.

    [Gajim](https://gajim.org/) is the best Linux XMPP client in terms of end-to-end
    encryption support as it's able to speak OMEMO.

### [Jellyfin](jellyfin.md)

* Correction: Explain how to fix the stuck at login page issue.

    ```bash
    systemctl stop jellyfin.service
    mv /var/lib/jellyfin/data/jellyfin.db{,.bak}
    systemctl start jellyfin.service
    systemctl stop jellyfin.service
    mv /var/lib/jellyfin/data/jellyfin.db{.bak,}
    systemctl start jellyfin.service
    ```

* Correction: Explain how to fix the Intel Hardware transcoding.

    ```bash
    docker exec -it jellyfin /bin/bash
    wget https://repo.jellyfin.org/releases/server/ubuntu/versions/jellyfin-ffmpeg/4.3.2-1/jellyfin-ffmpeg_4.3.2-1-focal_amd64.deb
    dpkg -i jellyfin-ffmpeg_4.3.2-1-focal_amd64.deb
    ```
    

### [Vim](vim.md)

* Reorganization: Refactor the vim_automation article into vim and vim_plugins.

# Arts

## Writing

### [Forking this garden](forking_this_wiki.md)

* New: Explain how to fork the blue book.

# Other

* Reorganization: Reorder the sections of the site navigation menu.

    Give more importance to Coding, Activism and Life Management, reducing
    the Software Architecture and Data Analysis sections.
    

* Reorganization: Move the tasks tools from the task management article to their own.