# DevOps

## [Scrum](scrum.md)

* New: Introduce the scrum framework.

    [Scrum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_%28software_development%29)
    is an
    [agile](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development) framework
    for
    developing, delivering, and sustaining complex products, with an initial
    emphasis on software development, although it has been used in other fields
    such
    as personal task management.  It is designed for teams of ten or fewer
    members,
    who break their work into goals that can be completed within time-boxed
    iterations, called sprints, no longer than one month and most commonly two
    weeks. The Scrum Team track progress in 15-minute time-boxed daily meetings,

    called daily scrums. At the end of the sprint, the team holds sprint review,
    to
    demonstrate the work done, a sprint retrospective to improve continuously,
    and
    a sprint planning to prepare next sprint's tasks.

    In the article I explain:

    * I use to do [the meetings](scrum.md#the-meetings):
        [Daily](scrum.md#daily-meetings),
        [Refinement](scrum.md#refinement-meetings),
        [Retros](scrum.md#retro-meetings), [Reviews](scrum.md#review-meetings) and
        [Plannings](scrum.md#planning-meetings).
    * The relevant [roles](scrum.md#the-roles).
    * Some [definitions](scrum.md#definitions), such as definition of done
      and definition of ready.

# Coding

## Python

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* Correction: How to solve the No name 'BaseModel' in module 'pydantic'.

    It's still a patch, so I've also monitored the relevant
    [issues](issues.md#pydantic-errors)

# [Activism](diversity.md)

* New: Define Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.

    * *Diversity* is the representation and acknowledgement of the
    multitudes of
        identities, experiences, and ways of moving through the world. This
        includes—but is not limited to—ability, age, citizenship status,
    criminal
        record and/or incarceration, educational attainment, ethnicity, gender,
        geographical location, language, nationality, political affiliation,
        religion, race, sexuality, socioeconomic status, and veteran status.
        Further, we recognize that each individual's experience is informed by
        intersections across multiple identities.

    * *Equity*  seeks to ensure respect and equal opportunity for all, using all
        resources and tools to elevate the voices of under-represented and/or
        disadvantaged groups.

    * *Inclusion* is fostering an environment in which people of all identities
    are
        welcome, valued, and supported. An inclusive organization solicits,
    listens
        to, learns from, and acts on the contributions of all its stakeholders.

# Arts

## Writing

### [Grammar and Orthography](orthography.md)

* Improvement: Expand the introduction and add Dave's suggested link.
