# [Projects](projects.md)

* Correction: Clean up deprecated projects.

# Activism

## Antifascism

### [Antifascist Actions](antifascist_actions.md)

* New: [A fake company and five million recycled flyers.](antifascist_actions.md#a-fake-company-and-five-million-recycled-flyers)

    A group of artists belonging to the [Center for political
    beauty](https://politicalbeauty.com/) created a fake company [Flyerservice
    Hahn](https://www.flyerservice-hahn.de/) and convinced more than 80 regional
    sections of the far right party AfD to hire them to deliver their electoral
    propaganda.
    
    They gathered five million flyers, with a total weight of 72 tons. They justify
    that they wouldn't be able to lie to the people, so they did nothing in the
    broader sense of the word. They declared that they are the ["world wide leader in
    the non-delivery of nazi
    propaganda"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcBVq-PtrpY). At the start of the
    electoral campaign, they went to the AfD stands, and they let their members to
    give them flyers the throw them to the closest bin. "It's something that any
    citizen can freely do, we have only industrialized the process".
    
    They've done a [crowdfunding](https://afd-muell.de/) to fund the legal process
    that may result.
    

# Coding

## Python

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [Document when to use `isinstance` and when to use `type`.](python_snippets.md#when-to-use-isinstance-and-when-to-use-type)

    `isinstance` takes into account inheritance, while `type` doesn't. So if
    you want to make sure you're dealing with a specific class, and not any
    of it's parents or subclasses, use `type(obj) == class`.

# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helmfile](helmfile.md)

* Correction: [Improve the helmfile chart update process.](helmfile.md#keep-charts-updated)

    Updating charts with `helmfile` is easy as long as you don't use environments,
    you run `helmfile deps`, then `helmfile diff` and finally `helmfile apply`. The
    tricky business comes when you want to use environments to reuse your helmfile
    code and don't repeat yourself. I've updated the process to include
    this case.

* New: [Document the directory and files structure for multi-environment projects.](helmfile.md#multi-environment-project-structure)
* New: [Document how to use helmfile environments to follow DRY.](helmfile.md#using-helmfile-environments)
* New: [Document how to avoiding code repetition.](helmfile.md#avoiding-code-repetition)

    Besides environments, `helmfile` gives other useful tricks to prevent the
    illness of code repetition, such as [using release templates](helmfile.md#using-release-templates), or [layering the state](helmfile.md#layering-the-state).

* New: [Document how to manage dependencies between the charts, to be able to use concurrency.](helmfile.md#managing-dependencies)

    Helmfile support concurrency with the option `--concurrency=N` so we can take
    advantage of it and improve our deployment speed, but to ensure it works as
    expected we have to define the dependencies among charts. For example, if an
    application needs a database, it has to be deployed before hand.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Document how to bypass client SSL certificate with a cli tool.](linux_snippets.md#bypass-client-ssl-certificate-with-cli-tool)

    Websites that require clients to authorize with an TLS certificate are difficult
    to interact with through command line tools that don't support this feature.
    
    To solve it, we can use a transparent proxy that does the exchange for us.