# DevOps

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus Install](prometheus_installation.md)

* Improvement: [Add upgrading notes from 10.x -> 11.1.7.](prometheus_installation.md#upgrading-notes)

    !!! warning "Don't upgrade to 12.x if you're still using Helm 2."

# Coding

## Python

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: Add file management snippets.

    * [Remove the extension of
        a file](python_snippets.md#remove-the-extension-of-a-file).
    * [Iterate over the files of
        a directory](python_snippets.md#iterate-over-the-files-of-a-directory).
    * [Create directory](python_snippets.md#create-directory)
    * [Touch a file](python_snippets.md#touch-a-file)

* Improvement: [Get the first day of next month.](python_snippets.md#get-the-first-day-of-next-month)

# Life Management

## Automation

### [Fitness Tracker](fitness_band.md)

* Improvement: Discovery of wasp-os and Colmi P8.

    [wasp-os](https://github.com/daniel-thompson/wasp-os) is an open source
    firmware for smart watches that are based on the nRF52 family of
    microcontrollers. Fully supported by [gadgetbridge](gadgetbridge.md),
    Wasp-os features full heart rate monitoring and step counting support
    together with multiple clock faces, a stopwatch, an alarm clock,
    a countdown timer, a calculator and lots of other games and utilities.
    All of this, and still with access to the MicroPython REPL for
    interactive tweaking, development and testing.

    One of the supported devices, the [Colmi
    P8](https://wasp-os.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#colmi-p8),
    looks really good.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [ActivityWatch](activitywatch.md)

* New: Introduce ActivityWatch tracking software.

    It's a web application that can be installed both in Linux and Android
    that automatically tracks where you spend the time on.

    Super interesting for life logging and automating stuff. Until I save
    some time to react on the data, I'll just gather it and see how to
    aggregate it.

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* Correction: [Explain how to add files through a plugin.](mkdocs.md#adding-new-files)

    Long story short, use the `on_config` event instead of `on_files` and
    `on_nav` if you need to add files and want to change the navigation
    menu.

### [Syncthing](syncthing.md)

* Improvement: Mention privacy configurations.

    Disable the [Global
    Discovery](https://docs.syncthing.net/users/security.html#global-discovery)
    and [Relaying
    connections](https://docs.syncthing.net/users/security.html#relay-
    connections)
    options.

## Android

### [Signal](signal.md)

* New: Introduce the messaging app and how to decrypt the backups.
