# [Introduction](index.md)

* Reorganization: Merge the Meta article into the index.

# [Projects](projects.md)

* Improvement: [Add mkdocs-newsletter as a dormant plant.](projects.md#mkdocs-newsletter)

    MkDocs plugin to show the changes of documentation repositories in
    a user friendly format, at the same time that it's easy for the authors
    to maintain.
    
    It creates daily, weekly, monthly and yearly newsletter articles with
    the changes of each period. Those pages, stored under the `Newsletters`
    section, are filled with the changes extracted from the commit messages
    of the git history.  The changes are grouped by categories,
    subcategories and then by file using the order of the site's navigation
    structure. RSS feeds are also created for each newsletter type, so it's
    easy for people to keep updated with the evolution of the site.

* Reorganization: Update and reorganize projects.

    Following the [digital garden](digital_garden.md) metaphor
    

* Reorganization: [Merge the wish_list article into the projects.](projects.md#seeds)
* New: Add seed to follow the updates of software.
* New: Add seed to automatically update the dockers of maintained services.

# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helm Git](helm_git.md)

* Correction: Suggest version 0.8.0 until issue is solved.

    Newer versions have
    a [bug](https://github.com/aslafy-z/helm-git/issues/131) that makes
    impossible to use helm_git with a repository that contains just one
    chart in the root of the git repository.

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus Install](prometheus_installation.md)

* Correction: Add warning that helm 2 support is dropped.

    If you want to use the helm chart above 11.1.7 you need to use helm 3.

* Improvement: [Add upgrading notes from 10.x -> 11.1.7.](prometheus_installation.md#upgrading-notes)

    !!! warning "Don't upgrade to 12.x if you're still using Helm 2."

## [Scrum](scrum.md)

* New: Introduce the scrum framework.

    [Scrum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_%28software_development%29) is an
    [agile](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development) framework for
    developing, delivering, and sustaining complex products, with an initial
    emphasis on software development, although it has been used in other fields such
    as personal task management.  It is designed for teams of ten or fewer members,
    who break their work into goals that can be completed within time-boxed
    iterations, called sprints, no longer than one month and most commonly two
    weeks. The Scrum Team track progress in 15-minute time-boxed daily meetings,
    called daily scrums. At the end of the sprint, the team holds sprint review, to
    demonstrate the work done, a sprint retrospective to improve continuously, and
    a sprint planning to prepare next sprint's tasks.
    
    In the article I explain:
    
    * I use to do [the meetings](scrum.md#the-meetings): [Daily](scrum.md#daily-meetings), [Refinement](scrum.md#refinement-meetings), [Retros](scrum.md#retro-meetings), [Reviews](scrum.md#review-meetings) and [Plannings](scrum.md#planning-meetings).
    * The relevant [roles](scrum.md#the-roles).
    * Some [definitions](scrum.md#definitions), such as definition of done
      and definition of ready.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Add python landing page.

### [Code Styling](python_code_styling.md)

* Improvement: Don't use try-except to initialize dictionaries.

    Instead of:
    
    ```python
    try:
        dictionary['key']
    except KeyError:
        dictionary['key'] = {}
    ```
    
    Use:
    
    ```python
    dictionary.setdefault('key', {})
    ```

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: Add date management snippets.

    * [Get the week number of a datetime](python_snippets.md#get-the-week-number-of-a-datetime): `datetime.datetime(2010, 6, 16).isocalendar()[1]`.
    
    * [Get the Monday of a week number](python_snippets.md#get-the-monday-of-a-week-number):
    
      ```python
      import datetime
      d = "2013-W26"
      r = datetime.datetime.strptime(d + '-1', "%Y-W%W-%w")
      ```
    
    * [Get the month name from a number](python_snippets.md#get-the-month-name-from-a-number):
    
      ```python
      import calendar
    
      >> calendar.month_name[3]
      'March'
      ```
    * [Get ordinal from number](python_snippets.md#get-ordinal-from-number)
    
      ```python
      def int_to_ordinal(number: int) -> str:
          '''Convert an integer into its ordinal representation.
    
          make_ordinal(0)   => '0th'
          make_ordinal(3)   => '3rd'
          make_ordinal(122) => '122nd'
          make_ordinal(213) => '213th'
    
          Args:
              number: Number to convert
    
          Returns:
              ordinal representation of the number
          '''
          suffix = ['th', 'st', 'nd', 'rd', 'th'][min(number % 10, 4)]
          if 11 <= (number % 100) <= 13:
              suffix = 'th'
          return f"{number}{suffix}"
      ```

* New: Add file management snippets.

    * [Remove the extension of a file](python_snippets.md#remove-the-extension-of-a-file)
    * [Iterate over the files of a directory](python_snippets.md#iterate-over-the-files-of-a-directory)
    * [Create directory](python_snippets.md#create-directory)
    * [Touch a file](python_snippets.md#touch-a-file)

* Improvement: [Get the first day of next month.](python_snippets.md#get-the-first-day-of-next-month)
* New: [Explain how to test directories and files.](python_snippets.md#check-directories-and-files)

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* Correction: How to solve the No name 'BaseModel' in module 'pydantic'.

    It's still a patch, so I've also monitored the relevant
    [issues](issues.md#pydantic-errors)

## Javascript

### [MermaidJS](mermaidjs.md)

* New: Introduce the diagram library and how to make flowchart diagrams.

    [MermaidJS](https://mermaid-js.github.io) is a Javascript library that lets you create diagrams using text and code.
    
    It can render the [next diagram
    types](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/?id=diagrams-that-mermaid-can-render):
    
    * Flowchart
    * Sequence.
    * Gantt
    * Class
    * Git graph
    * Entity Relationship
    * User journey

## [Issues](issues.md)

* Improvement: Track python dependency errors.
* Correction: Gitdb has updated smmap.
* New: Jellyfin 10.7.1 broke the login page.

    Don't upgrade till it's solved, as the rollback is not easy.

* Correction: Jellyfin login page problem after upgrade to 10.7.X is solved.

    Surprisingly the instructions in
    [#5489](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin/issues/5489) solved it.
    
    ```bash
    systemctl stop jellyfin.service
    mv /var/lib/jellyfin/data/jellyfin.db{,.bak}
    systemctl start jellyfin.service
    
    [ Go to JF URL, get asked to log in even though there are no Users in the JF DB now]
    
    systemctl stop jellyfin.service
    mv /var/lib/jellyfin/data/jellyfin.db{.bak,}
    systemctl start jellyfin.service
    ```

# Software Architecture

## [Architecture Decision Record](adr.md)

* Improvement: Explain how to show relationship between ADRs.

    Suggest a [mermaidjs](mermaidjs.md) diagram to show the state of the
    project ADRs.

# Life Management

## Automation

### [Life Automation](life_management.md)

* New: Suggest organize to act on computer file changes.

    [organize](https://organize.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) looks good for
    automating processes on files. Maybe it's interesting to run it with
    [inotifywait](https://askubuntu.com/a/819290) instead of with a [cron
    job](https://github.com/tfeldmann/organize/issues/18).

### [Fitness Tracker](fitness_band.md)

* Improvement: Discovery of wasp-os and Colmi P8.

    [wasp-os](https://github.com/daniel-thompson/wasp-os) is an open source
    firmware for smart watches that are based on the nRF52 family of
    microcontrollers. Fully supported by [gadgetbridge](gadgetbridge.md),
    Wasp-os features full heart rate monitoring and step counting support
    together with multiple clock faces, a stopwatch, an alarm clock,
    a countdown timer, a calculator and lots of other games and utilities.
    All of this, and still with access to the MicroPython REPL for
    interactive tweaking, development and testing.
    
    One of the supported devices, the [Colmi
    P8](https://wasp-os.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#colmi-p8),
    looks really good.

# Health

## [Sleep](sleep.md)

* New: [Explain the sleep cycle.](sleep.md#the-sleep-cycle)

    Humans cycle through two types of sleep in a regular pattern throughout the
    night with a period of 90 minutes. They were called non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and rapid
    eye movement (REM).
    
    I answer the questions:
    
    * What is the period of the REM/NREM cycle?
    * What happens to your body in REM and NREM phases?
    * How does the ratio of REM/NREM changes throughout the night? with
        a possible explanation.
    * Why sleeping 6 hours can make you loose up to 90% of your REM or NREM phases?

* New: [Explain sleeping time and sense distortions.](sleep.md#sleeping-time-and-sense-distortions)

    Answer the questions:
    
    * Why time feels longer in our dreams?
    * How do we loose awareness of the outside world when sleeping?
    

# [Activism](diversity.md)

* New: Define Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.

    * *Diversity* is the representation and acknowledgement of the multitudes of
        identities, experiences, and ways of moving through the world. This
        includes—but is not limited to—ability, age, citizenship status, criminal
        record and/or incarceration, educational attainment, ethnicity, gender,
        geographical location, language, nationality, political affiliation,
        religion, race, sexuality, socioeconomic status, and veteran status.
        Further, we recognize that each individual's experience is informed by
        intersections across multiple identities.
    
    * *Equity*  seeks to ensure respect and equal opportunity for all, using all
        resources and tools to elevate the voices of under-represented and/or
        disadvantaged groups.
    
    * *Inclusion* is fostering an environment in which people of all identities are
        welcome, valued, and supported. An inclusive organization solicits, listens
        to, learns from, and acts on the contributions of all its stakeholders.
    

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [ActivityWatch](activitywatch.md)

* New: Introduce ActivityWatch tracking software.

    It's a web application that can be installed both in Linux and Android
    that automatically tracks where you spend the time on.
    
    Super interesting for life logging and automating stuff. Until I save
    some time to react on the data, I'll just gather it and see how to
    aggregate it.

* Improvement: Add week insights.

    * [The browser watcher is not very accurate](https://github.com/ActivityWatch/aw-watcher-web/issues/20).
    * The vim editor watcher doesn't add [git branch information](https://github.com/ActivityWatch/aw-watcher-vim/issues/19).
    * Syncing data between devices [is not yet supported](https://github.com/ActivityWatch/activitywatch/issues/35).

### [Tabs vs Buffers](vim_tabs.md)

* New: Explain how to use tabs, buffers and windows in vim.

### [Vim Plugins](vim_plugins.md)

* New: [Follow the issue to add elipsis instead of ... in vim-abolish.](vim_plugins.md#issues)
* Correction: Forget to use abolish to insert the elipsis symbol.

    Tpope said that it's not going to happen.

* New: Introduce vim-easymotion.

    EasyMotion provides a much simpler way to use some motions in vim. It takes the
    `<number>` out of `<number>w` or `<number>f{char}` by highlighting all possible
    choices and allowing you to press one key to jump directly to the target.
    
    When one of the available motions is triggered, all visible text preceding or
    following the cursor is faded, and motion targets are highlighted.

* Reorganization: Move vim-test to the plugins page.

### [elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md)

* New: Explain how to reindex an index.

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* New: Document the Navigation object and the on_nav event.

    Useful if you develop MkDocs plugins, it holds the information to build
    the navigation of the site.

* New: Describe navigation objects used in plugins.

    Explain how to use the [Page](mkdocs.md#page),
    [Section](mkdocs.md#section), and [SectionPage](mkdocs.md#sectionpage) objects.

* Correction: You need to edit the nav in the on_nav and not in the on_files event.

    Even though it seems more easy to create the nav structure in the
    [`on_files`](#on_files) event, by editing the `nav` dictionary of the `config`
    object, there is no way of returning the `config` object in that event, so we're
    forced to do it in this event.

* Correction: [Explain how to add files through a plugin.](mkdocs.md#adding-new-files)

    Long story short, use the `on_config` event instead of `on_files` and
    `on_nav` if you need to add files and want to change the navigation
    menu.

* New: Explain how to use MermaidJS diagrams.
* New: Explain how to test mkdocs plugins.
* New: [Explain additions of version 7.1.0 of the material theme.](mkdocs.md#material-theme-customizations)

    * [Dark-light mode switch](mkdocs.md#color-palette-toggle).
    * [Back to top button](mkdocs.md#back-to-top-button).

### [Peek](peek.md)

* New: Introduce Peek the screen recorder.

    [Peek](https://github.com/phw/peek) is a simple animated GIF screen recorder
    with an easy to use interface.
    
    If you try to use it with i3, you're going to have a bad time, you'd
    [need to
    install](https://github.com/phw/peek#on-i3-the-recording-area-is-all-black-how-can-i-record-anything)
    [Compton](https://github.com/chjj/compton), and then the elements [may
    not even be
    clickable](https://github.com/phw/peek#why-cant-i-interact-with-the-ui-elements-inside-the-recording-area).
    

### [Syncthing](syncthing.md)

* Improvement: Mention privacy configurations.

    Disable the [Global
    Discovery](https://docs.syncthing.net/users/security.html#global-discovery)
    and [Relaying
    connections](https://docs.syncthing.net/users/security.html#relay-connections)
    options.

### [Vim](vim.md)

* New: Add vim landing page.

## Android

### [Signal](signal.md)

* New: Introduce the messaging app and how to decrypt the backups.

# Arts

## Writing

### [Grammar and Orthography](orthography.md)

* Improvement: Expand the introduction and add Dave's suggested link.
* New: [Explain where to add your pronouns.](orthography.md#where-to-add-your-pronouns)

    > Hi, I’m Lyz (he/him), I'm writing to tell you…

* New: [Explain when to capitalize after a question mark.](orthography.md#when-to-capitalize-after-a-question-mark)

    If the sentence ends after the question mark you should capitalize, if it
    doesn't end, you shouldn't have used the question mark, since it ends
    a sentence.

* New: Add textstat tests.

    To analyze the text readability
    

* New: [Explain how to use the singular `they`.](orthography.md#how-to-use-the-singular-they)

### [Writing Style](writing_style.md)

* New: [Analyze interesting books on writing style.](writing_style.md#writing-style-books)

    * The elements of style by William Strunk Jr and E.B White
    * On writing well by William Zinsser
    * Bird by bird by Anne Lamott
    * On writing by Stephen King

* New: [Explain how to end a letter.](writing_style.md#how-to-end-a-letter)

    Use Sincerely in doubt and Best if you have more confidence. Add a comma
    after the sign-off and *never* use Cheers (it's what I've been doing all
    my life `(◞‸◟；)` ).
    

## [Origami](origami.md)

* New: Add mark1626 digital garden article on origamis.

# Other

* New: Introduce Outrun.

    [Outrun](https://github.com/Overv/outrun) lets you execute a local command using
    the processing power of another Linux machine.

* New: Introduce the media system and monitor interesting issues.

    [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/) is a Free Software Media System that puts you
    in control of managing and streaming your media. It is an alternative to the
    proprietary Emby and Plex, to provide media from a dedicated server to end-user
    devices via multiple apps. Jellyfin is descended from Emby's 3.5.2 release and
    ported to the .NET Core framework to enable full cross-platform support. There
    are no strings attached, no premium licenses or features, and no hidden agendas:
    just a team who want to build something better and work together to achieve it.