# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helm Git](helm_git.md)

* Correction: Suggest version 0.8.0 until issue is solved.

    Newer versions have
    a [bug](https://github.com/aslafy-z/helm-git/issues/131) that makes
    impossible to use helm_git with a repository that contains just one
    chart in the root of the git repository.

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus Install](prometheus_installation.md)

* Correction: Add warning that helm 2 support is dropped.

    If you want to use the helm chart above 11.1.7 you need to use helm 3.

## [Scrum](scrum.md)

* New: Introduce the scrum framework.

    [Scrum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_%28software_development%29)
    is an
    [agile](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development) framework
    for
    developing, delivering, and sustaining complex products, with an initial
    emphasis on software development, although it has been used in other fields
    such
    as personal task management.  It is designed for teams of ten or fewer
    members,
    who break their work into goals that can be completed within time-boxed
    iterations, called sprints, no longer than one month and most commonly two
    weeks. The Scrum Team track progress in 15-minute time-boxed daily meetings,
    called daily scrums. At the end of the sprint, the team holds sprint review,
    to
    demonstrate the work done, a sprint retrospective to improve continuously,
    and
    a sprint planning to prepare next sprint's tasks.

    In the article I explain:

    * I use to do [the meetings](scrum.md#the-meetings):
        [Daily](scrum.md#daily-meetings),
        [Refinement](scrum.md#refinement-meetings),
        [Retros](scrum.md#retro-meetings), [Reviews](scrum.md#review-meetings) and
        [Plannings](scrum.md#planning-meetings).
    * The relevant [roles](scrum.md#the-roles).
    * Some [definitions](scrum.md#definitions), such as definition of done
      and definition of ready.

# Coding

## Python

### [Code Styling](python_code_styling.md)

* Improvement: Don't use try-except to initialize dictionaries.

    Instead of:

    ```python
    try:
        dictionary['key']
    except KeyError:
        dictionary['key'] = {}
    ```

    Use:

    ```python
    dictionary.setdefault('key', {})
    ```

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: Add date management snippets.

    * [Get the week number of
        a datetime](python_snippets.md#get-the-week-number-of-a-datetime):
        `datetime.datetime(2010, 6, 16).isocalendar()[1]`.

    * [Get the Monday of a week
        number](python_snippets.md#get-the-monday-of-a-week-number):

      ```python
      import datetime
      d = "2013-W26"
      r = datetime.datetime.strptime(d + '-1', "%Y-W%W-%w")
      ```

    * [Get the month name from
        a number](python_snippets.md#get-the-month-name-from-a-number):

      ```python
      import calendar

      >> calendar.month_name[3]
      'March'
      ```
    * [Get ordinal from number](python_snippets.md#get-ordinal-from-number)

      ```python
      def int_to_ordinal(number: int) -> str:
          '''Convert an integer into its ordinal representation.

          make_ordinal(0)   => '0th'
          make_ordinal(3)   => '3rd'
          make_ordinal(122) => '122nd'
          make_ordinal(213) => '213th'

          Args:
              number: Number to convert

          Returns:
              ordinal representation of the number
          '''
          suffix = ['th', 'st', 'nd', 'rd', 'th'][min(number % 10, 4)]
          if 11 <= (number % 100) <= 13:
              suffix = 'th'
          return f"{number}{suffix}"
      ```

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* Correction: How to solve the No name 'BaseModel' in module 'pydantic'.

    It's still a patch, so I've also monitored the relevant
    [issues](issues.md#pydantic-errors)

# Health

## [Sleep](sleep.md)

* New: [Explain the sleep cycle.](sleep.md#the-sleep-cycle)

    Humans cycle through two types of sleep in a regular pattern throughout
    the
    night with a period of 90 minutes. They were called non-rapid eye movement
    (NREM) and rapid
    eye movement (REM).

    I answer the questions:

    * What is the period of the REM/NREM cycle?
    * What happens to your body in REM and NREM phases?
    * How does the ratio of REM/NREM changes throughout the night? with
        a possible explanation.
    * Why sleeping 6 hours can make you loose up to 90% of your REM or NREM
    phases?

* New: [Explain sleeping time and sense distortions.](sleep.md#sleeping-time-and-sense-distortions)

    Answer the questions:

    * Why time feels longer in our dreams?
    * How do we loose awareness of the outside world when sleeping?

# [Activism](diversity.md)

* New: Define Diversity, Equity and Inclusion.

    * *Diversity* is the representation and acknowledgement of the
    multitudes of
        identities, experiences, and ways of moving through the world. This
        includes—but is not limited to—ability, age, citizenship status,
    criminal
        record and/or incarceration, educational attainment, ethnicity, gender,
        geographical location, language, nationality, political affiliation,
        religion, race, sexuality, socioeconomic status, and veteran status.
        Further, we recognize that each individual's experience is informed by
        intersections across multiple identities.

    * *Equity*  seeks to ensure respect and equal opportunity for all, using all
        resources and tools to elevate the voices of under-represented and/or
        disadvantaged groups.

    * *Inclusion* is fostering an environment in which people of all identities
    are
        welcome, valued, and supported. An inclusive organization solicits,
    listens
        to, learns from, and acts on the contributions of all its stakeholders.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Vim Plugins](vim_plugins.md)

* New: [Follow the issue to add elipsis instead of ... in vim-abolish.](vim_plugins.md#issues)

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* New: Document the Navigation object and the on_nav event.

    Useful if you develop MkDocs plugins, it holds the information to build
    the navigation of the site.

* New: Describe navigation objects used in plugins.

    Explain how to use the Page, Section, and SectionPage objects.

* Correction: You need to edit the nav in the on_nav and not in the on_files event.

    Even though it seems more easy to create the nav structure in the
    [`on_files`](#on_files) event, by editing the `nav` dictionary of the
    `config`
    object, there is no way of returning the `config` object in that event, so
    we're
    forced to do it in this event.

# Arts

## Writing

### [Grammar and Orthography](orthography.md)

* Improvement: Expand the introduction and add Dave's suggested link.
* New: [Explain where to add your pronouns.](orthography.md#where-to-add-your-pronouns)

    > Hi, I’m Lyz (he/him), I'm writing to tell you…

* New: [Explain when to capitalize after a question mark.](orthography.md#when-to-capitalize-after-a-question-mark)

    If the sentence ends after the question mark you should capitalize, if
    it
    doesn't end, you shouldn't have used the question mark, since it ends
    a sentence.

### [Writing Style](writing_style.md)

* New: [Analyze interesting books on writing style.](writing_style.md#writing-style-books)

    * The elements of style by William Strunk Jr and E.B White
    * On writing well by William Zinsser
    * Bird by bird by Anne Lamott
    * On writing by Stephen King

* New: [Explain how to end a letter.](writing_style.md#how-to-end-a-letter)

    Use Sincerely in doubt and Best if you have more confidence. Add a comma
    after the sign-off and *never* use Cheers (it's what I've been doing all
    my life `(◞‸◟；)` ).

## [Origami](origami.md)

* New: Add mark1626 digital garden article on origamis.
