# Coding

## Python

### [GitPython](gitpython.md)

* New: Introduce the python library.

    [GitPython](https://gitpython.readthedocs.io) is a python library used
    to
    interact with git repositories, high-level like git-porcelain, or low-level
    like
    git-plumbing.
    
    It provides abstractions of git objects for easy access of repository data,
    and
    additionally allows you to access the git repository more directly using
    either
    a pure python implementation, or the faster, but more resource intensive git
    command implementation.
    
    Explain how to:
    
    * Initialize or load repositories.
    * Make commits.
    * Interact with the history.
    * Test applications that use it.

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: Add today's learned python tricks.

    * [Get system's timezone and use it in
    datetime](python_snippets.md#get-systems-timezone-and-use-it-in-datetime).
    * [Capitalize a sentence](python_snippets.md#capitalize-a-sentence).
    * [Get the last monday
    datetime](python_snippets.md#get-the-last-monday-datetime).

# Software Architecture

## [Architecture Decision Record](adr.md)

* New: [Update the ADR template with the week learnings.](adr.md#adr-template)

    * Add the Proposals and Date sections
    * Explain the possible Status states.
    * Add an [Ultisnip](https://github.com/SirVer/ultisnips) vim snippet.
    * Explain how I've used it to create [mkdocs-
    newsletter](https://github.com/lyz-code/mkdocs-newsletter).

# Arts

## [Pilates](pilates.md)

* New: Introduce the art.

    [Pilates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilates) is a physical fitness
    system
    based on controlled movements putting emphasis on alignment, breathing,
    developing a strong core, and improving coordination and balance. The core
    (or
    powerhouse), consisting of the muscles of the abdomen, low back, and hips,
    is
    thought to be the key to a person's stability.
    
    Pilates' system allows for different exercises to be modified in range of
    difficulty from beginner to advanced or to any other level, and also in
    terms of
    the instructor and practitioner's specific goals and/or limitations.
    Intensity
    can be increased over time as the body adapts itself to the exercises.
    
    You can think of yoga, but without the spiritual aspects.
    
    Also added:
    
    * It's principles
    * The [swing from table](pilates.md#swing-from-table) exercise.