# [Projects](projects.md)

* Correction: Clean up deprecated projects.

# Coding

## Python

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [Document when to use `isinstance` and when to use `type`.](python_snippets.md#when-to-use-isinstance-and-when-to-use-type)

    `isinstance` takes into account inheritance, while `type` doesn't. So if
    you want to make sure you're dealing with a specific class, and not any
    of it's parents or subclasses, use `type(obj) == class`.

# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helmfile](helmfile.md)

* Correction: [Improve the helmfile chart update process.](helmfile.md#keep-charts-updated)

    Updating charts with `helmfile` is easy as long as you don't use environments,
    you run `helmfile deps`, then `helmfile diff` and finally `helmfile apply`. The
    tricky business comes when you want to use environments to reuse your helmfile
    code and don't repeat yourself. I've updated the process to include
    this case.

* New: [Document the directory and files structure for multi-environment projects.](helmfile.md#multi-environment-project-structure)
* New: [Document how to use helmfile environments to follow DRY.](helmfile.md#using-helmfile-environments)
* New: [Document how to avoiding code repetition.](helmfile.md#avoiding-code-repetition)

    Besides environments, `helmfile` gives other useful tricks to prevent the
    illness of code repetition, such as [using release templates](helmfile.md#using-release-templates), or [layering the state](helmfile.md#layering-the-state).

* New: [Document how to manage dependencies between the charts, to be able to use concurrency.](helmfile.md#managing-dependencies)

    Helmfile support concurrency with the option `--concurrency=N` so we can take
    advantage of it and improve our deployment speed, but to ensure it works as
    expected we have to define the dependencies among charts. For example, if an
    application needs a database, it has to be deployed before hand.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Document how to bypass client SSL certificate with a cli tool.](linux_snippets.md#bypass-client-ssl-certificate-with-cli-tool)

    Websites that require clients to authorize with an TLS certificate are difficult
    to interact with through command line tools that don't support this feature.
    
    To solve it, we can use a transparent proxy that does the exchange for us.