# [Introduction](index.md)

* New: Simplify the landing page text.

# Meta

## [Wish list](projects.md)

* New: Feature mkdocs-rss-plugin as a solution of publishing mkdocs updates as an RSS.
* New: Add a git issue tracker and markdown formatter.

# [DevOps](devops.md)

* New: Comment on the DevOps pitfalls and update the learn path.

## Monitoring

### [Monitoring Comparison](monitoring_comparison.md)

* New: Compare Nagios and Prometheus as monitoring.
* Correction: Improve the comparison.

    * State that nagios is not easy to configure. If you're used to it it
        is, otherwise it's not.
    * Add that grafana has a huge community building graphs.
    * Mention Thanos as the long term storage solution for Prometheus.

* Correction: Add the insights of a nagios power user.

    * Update open source and community analysis with nagios exchange.
    * Correct nagios community analysis with its trajectory
    * Correct the analysis of the high availability of nagios
    * Add the option to host the script exporter in a dedicated server

# Coding

## Python

### [GitPython](gitpython.md)

* New: Introduce the python library.

    [GitPython](https://gitpython.readthedocs.io) is a python library used
    to
    interact with git repositories, high-level like git-porcelain, or low-level
    like
    git-plumbing.

    It provides abstractions of git objects for easy access of repository data,
    and
    additionally allows you to access the git repository more directly using
    either
    a pure python implementation, or the faster, but more resource intensive git
    command implementation.

    Explain how to:

    * Initialize or load repositories.
    * Make commits.
    * Interact with the history.
    * Test applications that use it.

* Improvement: Explain how to get the working directory of a repo.

    Using the `working_dir` attribute.

### [Jinja2](python_jinja2.md)

* New: Explain how to use Jinja2.

    [Jinja2](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com) is a modern and designer-
    friendly
    templating language for Python, modelled after Django’s templates. It is
    fast,
    widely used and secure with the optional sandboxed template execution
    environment.

    Add installation, usage and basic and advanced template guidelines.

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: Add today's learned python tricks.

    * [Get system's timezone and use it in
    datetime](python_snippets.md#get-systems-timezone-and-use-it-in-datetime).
    * [Capitalize a sentence](python_snippets.md#capitalize-a-sentence).
    * [Get the last monday
    datetime](python_snippets.md#get-the-last-monday-datetime).
    * Explain how to group a list of dictionaries by a specific key.

    With `itertools.groupby`.

## [Issues](issues.md)

* New: Introduce the issue tracking document.

    I haven't found a tool to monitor the context it made me track certain
    software issues, so I get lost when updates come. Until a tool shows up,
    I'll use the good old markdown to keep track of them.

* New: Add today's issues.

    * Gadgetbridge improvements
    * Ombi improvements

* Improvement: Monitor today's issues.

    * Mkdocs migration to 7.x is giving errors with the search bar and repo
    stats.

# Software Architecture

## [Architecture Decision Record](adr.md)

* New: Introduce the Architecture Decision Records.

[ADR](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/architecture_decision_record)
    are
    short text documents that captures an important architectural decision made
    along with its context and consequences.

* New: [Update the ADR template with the week learnings.](adr.md#adr-template)

    * Add the Proposals and Date sections
    * Explain the possible Status states.
    * Add an [Ultisnip](https://github.com/SirVer/ultisnips) vim snippet.
    * Explain how I've used it to create [mkdocs-
    newsletter](https://github.com/lyz-code/mkdocs-newsletter).

# Life Management

## Automation

### [Amazfit Band 5](amazfit_band_5.md)

* New: Add insights on sleep detection.

    The sleep tracking using Gadgetbridge is not [good at
    all](https://codeberg.org/Freeyourgadget/Gadgetbridge/wiki/Huami-Deep-Sleep-
    Detection).
    After two nights, the band has not been able to detect when I woke in the
    middle
    of the night, or when I really woke up, as I usually stay in the bed for a
    time
    before standing up. I'll try with the proprietary application soon and
    compare results.

* New: Explain how to upgrade the firmware.

    Gadgetbridge people have a [guide on how to upgrade the
    firmware](https://codeberg.org/Freeyourgadget/Gadgetbridge/wiki/Amazfit-
    Band-5-Firmware-Update),
    you need to get the firmware from the [geek doing
    forum](https://geekdoing.com/threads/amazfit-band-5-original-firmwares-
    resources-fonts.2331/)
    though, so it is interesting to create an account and watch the post.

* Improvement: Add insights on sleep tracking.

    You can't use the Withings sleep analyzer without their app (as
    expected), maybe the [Emfit
    QS](https://github.com/karlicoss/HPI/blob/master/my/emfit/__init__.py)
    is the way to go.

### [Fitness Tracker](fitness_band.md)

* New: Introduce the fitness band in your life automation.

    [Fitness tracker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Activity_tracker) or
    activity
    trackers are devices or applications for monitoring and tracking fitness-
    related
    metrics such as distance walked or run, calorie consumption, and in some
    cases
    heartbeat. It is a type of wearable computer.

    Explain also why it's interesting

### [Virtual Assistant](virtual_assistant.md)

* New: Introduce project with kalliope.
* New: Explain the Speech-To-Text open source solutions.

# Health

## [Teeth](teeth.md)

* New: Explain how to take care of your teeth.

    A full guide on why should you take care of your teeth, the description
    on how the basic oral diseases work, why and how to brush your teeth, floss
    and usage of mouthwash

* Correction: Recommend a regular clean instead of a deep clean.

### [Deep cleaning](teeth_deep_cleaning.md)

* New: Explain what a deep cleaning is and when should you do it.

    Analyze the reasons why would you need to do this procedure, how it
    works, when you need to do it, side effects and scientific evidences of
    it's effectiveness.

# [Activism](anonymous_feedback.md)

* New: Introduce the anonymous feedback tool to improve diversity, equity and inclusion in an organization.

    Anonymous Feedback is a communication tool where people share feedback
    to
    teammates or other organizational members while protecting their identities.

    Until the safe space is built where direct feedback is viable, anonymous
    feedback gives these employees a mechanism to raise their concerns, practice
    their
    feedback-giving skills, test the waters, and understand how people perceive
    their constructive (and sometimes critical) opinions, thus building the
    needed
    trust.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* New: Explain how to develop your own plugins.

### [Vim](vim.md)

* New: Configure Vim to set the upstream by default when git pushing.

## Android

### [GadgetBridge](gadgetbridge.md)

* New: Add more guidelines to reverse engineer the band protocol.

# Arts

## [Writing](writing.md)

* New: Try vim-pencil without success, but love mdnav.

    [mdnav](https://github.com/chmp/mdnav) opens links to urls or files when
    pressing `enter` in normal mode over a markdown link, similar to `gx`
    but more powerful. I specially like the ability of following `[self
    referencing link][]` links, that allows storing the links at the bottom.

### [Build your own Digital Garden](build_your_own_wiki.md)

* New: Explain how to enable clickable navigation sections in your mkdocs repository.

    [oprypin](https://github.com/oprypin) has solved it with the
    [mkdocs-section-index](https://github.com/oprypin/mkdocs-section-index)
    plugin.

### [Digital Gardens](digital_garden.md)

* New: Introduce the digital garden concept.

    [Digital Garden](https://joelhooks.com/digital-garden) is a method of
    storing and maintaining knowledge in an maintainable, scalable and
    searchable way. They are also known as second brains.

## [Pilates](pilates.md)

* New: Introduce the art.

    [Pilates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilates) is a physical fitness
    system
    based on controlled movements putting emphasis on alignment, breathing,
    developing a strong core, and improving coordination and balance. The core
    (or
    powerhouse), consisting of the muscles of the abdomen, low back, and hips,
    is
    thought to be the key to a person's stability.

    Pilates' system allows for different exercises to be modified in range of
    difficulty from beginner to advanced or to any other level, and also in
    terms of
    the instructor and practitioner's specific goals and/or limitations.
    Intensity
    can be increased over time as the body adapts itself to the exercises.

    You can think of yoga, but without the spiritual aspects.

    Also added:

    * It's principles
    * The [swing from table](pilates.md#swing-from-table) exercise.

# Other

* Correction: Deprecate mkdocs issues.

    They've been fixed in the last release
