# [Projects](projects.md)

* New: Add git-bug as an interesting distributed issue tracker.
* New: [Add the Improve the reliability of the Open Science collections project.](projects.md#improve-the-reliability-of-the-open-science-collections)

    The current [free knowledge efforts](free_knowledge.md): are based on the health
    of a collection of torrents. This project aims to create a command line
    tool or service that makes it easier to automate the seeding of ill
    torrents.

* New: [Add the Monitor and notify on disk prices project.](projects.md#monitor-and-notify-on-disk-prices)

    [Diskprices.com](https://diskprices.com/) sorts the prices of the disks on the
    different amazon sites based on many filters. It will be interesting to have
    a service that monitors the data on this site and alerts the user once there is
    a deal that matches its criteria.
    

* Reorganization: [Move the automation of computer file management project to the projects page.](projects.md#automating-computer-file-management)

# [Life Management](life_management.md)

* Reorganization: Split the life automation article into life management and process automation.

    I understand life management as the act of analyzing yourself and your
    interactions with the world to define processes and automations that shape the
    way to efficiently achieve your goals.
    
    I understand process automation as the act of analyzing yourself and your
    interactions with the world to find the way to reduce the time or willpower
    spent on your life processes.

## [Time Management](time_management.md)

* New: Introduce the time management concept.

    [Time management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_management) is the process
    of planning and exercising conscious control of time spent on specific
    activities, especially to increase effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity.
    It involves a juggling act of various demands upon a person relating to work,
    social life, family, hobbies, personal interests, and commitments with the
    finiteness of time. Using time effectively gives the person "choice" on spending
    or managing activities at their own time and expediency.

* New: Start analyzing the ways to reduce the time spent doing unproductive tasks.

    By [minimizing the context switches](time_management.md#minimize-the-context-switches) and [managing the interruptions](time_management.md#interruption-management).

## [Interruption Management](interruption_management.md)

* New: Introduce the interruption management concept.

    Interruption management is the [life management](life_management.md) area that
    gathers the processes to minimize the time and willpower toll consumed by
    interruptions.
    
    The article proposes a way to analyze your existent interruptions and define how can you improve your interaction with them. I've applied it both to my [work](work_interruption_analysis.md) and [personal](personal_interruption_analysis.md) interruptions.

## [Process Automation](process_automation.md)

* Improvement: Add xkcd comics that gather the essence and pitfalls of process automation.

# Activism

## [Free Knowledge](free_knowledge.md)

* New: Introduce how to contribute to the free knowledge initiative.

    One of the early principles of the internet has been to make knowledge free to everyone. [Alexandra Elbakyan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexandra_Elbakyan) of [Sci-Hub](https://sci-hub.do/), bookwarrior of [Library Genesis](https://libgen.fun/), [Aaron Swartz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Swartz), and countless unnamed others have fought to free science from the grips of for-profit publishers.  Today, they do it working in hiding, alone, without acknowledgment, in fear of imprisonment, and even now wiretapped by the FBI. They sacrifice everything for one vision: Open Science.
    
    If you want to know how to contribute, check the [article](free_knowledge.md).

# Other

* Reorganization: Reorder the sections of the site navigation menu.

    Give more importance to Coding, Activism and Life Management, reducing
    the Software Architecture and Data Analysis sections.