# [Activism](antitransphobia.md)

* New: Introduce Anti-transphobia.

    Anti-transphobia being reductionist is the opposition to the collection of ideas
    and phenomena that encompass a range of negative attitudes, feelings or actions
    towards transgender people or transness in general. Transphobia can include
    fear, aversion, hatred, violence, anger, or discomfort felt or expressed towards
    people who do not conform to social gender expectations. It is often expressed
    alongside homophobic views and hence is often considered an aspect of
    homophobia.

* New: [Introduce arguments against terf ideology.](antitransphobia.md#terf)

    [TERF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TERF) is an acronym for *trans-exclusionary
    radical feminist*. The term originally applied to the minority of feminists that
    expressed transphobic sentiments such as the rejection of the assertion that
    trans women are women, the exclusion of trans women from women's spaces, and
    opposition to transgender rights legislation. The meaning has since expanded to
    refer more broadly to people with trans-exclusionary views who may have no
    involvement with radical feminism.
    

## [Antifascism](antifascism.md)

* New: Introduce antifascism.

    Antifascism is a method of politics, a locus of individual and group
    self-indentification, it's a transnational movement that adapted preexisting
    socialist, anarchist, and communist currents to a sudden need to react to the
    fascist menace ([Mark p. 11](#references)). It's based on the idea that [any
    oppression form](#how-to-identify-fascism) can't be allowed, and should be
    actively fought with whatever means are necessary.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Add schedule to interesting libraries to explore.

    [schedule](https://github.com/dbader/schedule) is a Python job scheduling for humans. Run Python functions (or any other callable) periodically using a friendly syntax.
    

# [Contact](contact.md)

* Correction: Update the XMPP address.

    Riseup has stopped giving support for XMPP :(