# Life Management

## [Time Management](time_management.md)

* Improvement: [Explain how to improve your efficiency by better using your everyday tools.](time_management.md#tool-management)

## [Task Management](task_management.md)

* New: Introduce the task management concept.

    [Task management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Task_management) is the process
    of managing a task through its life cycle. It involves planning, testing,
    tracking, and reporting. Task management can help either individual achieve
    goals, or groups of individuals collaborate and share knowledge for the
    accomplishment of collective goals.

* Improvement: Introduce the main task management tools.

    The [inbox](task_management.md#inbox) does not refer only to your e-mail
    inbox. It is a broader concept that includes all the elements you have
    collected in different ways: tasks you have to do, ideas you have
    thought of, notes, bills, business cards, etc…
    
    The [task manager](task_management.md#task-manager) tool to make your
    interaction with the tasks easier. You can start with the [simplest task
    manager](task_management.md#the-simplest-task-manager), a markdown file
    in your computer with a list of tasks to do. Annotate only the
    actionable tasks that you need to do today, otherwise it can quickly
    grow to be unmanageable.

## [Interruption Management](interruption_management.md)

* Improvement: [Explain what to do once you have the interruption analysis.](interruption_management.md#workflow)

### [Work Interruption Analysis](work_interruption_analysis.md)

* Improvement: Add analysis of instant message interruptions.

### [Personal Interruption Analysis](personal_interruption_analysis.md)

* Improvement: Add analysis of instant message interruptions.

## [Money Management](money_management.md)

* Reorganization: Move the accounting automation to money management.

## [Tool Management](tool_management.md)

* New: Introduce the tool management section.

    Most of the tasks or processes we do involve some kind of tool, the better you
    know how to use them, the better your efficiency will be. The more you use
    a tool, the more it's worth the investment of time to improve your usage of it.
    
    Whenever I use a tool, I try to think if I could configure it or use it in a way
    that will make it easier or quicker. Don't go crazy and try to change everything. Go
    step by step, and once you've internalized the improvement, implement the next.
    

### [Email Management](email_management.md)

* New: Explain how I configure and interact with email efficiently.

### [Instant Messages Management](instant_messages_management.md)

* New: Explain how I configure and interact with chat applications efficiently.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Vim Plugins](vim_plugins.md)

* Improvement: [Explain how to configure the vim-easymotion movement keys.](vim_plugins.md#vim-easymotion)

### [Vim](vim.md)

* Reorganization: Refactor the vim_automation article into vim and vim_plugins.

# Arts

## Writing

### [Forking this garden](forking_this_wiki.md)

* New: Explain how to fork the blue book.