# Coding

## Python

### [Pydantic Field Types](pydantic_types.md)

* New: [Using constrained strings in list attributes.](pydantic_types.md#using-constrained-strings-in-list-attributes)

    ```python
    import re
    import pydantic
    from pydantic import Field
    from typing import List
    
    class Regex(pydantic.ConstrainedStr):
        regex = re.compile("^[0-9a-z_]*$")
    
    class Data(pydantic.BaseModel):
        regex: List[Regex]
    
    data = Data(**{"regex": ["abc", "123", "asdf"]})
    print(data)
    print(data.json())
    ```

### [Pydantic Factories](pydantic_factories.md)

* New: Introduce the awesome, life saving library `pydantic_factories`.

    [Pydantic factories](https://github.com/Goldziher/pydantic-factories) is
    a library offers powerful mock data generation capabilities for pydantic based
    models and dataclasses. It automatically creates [FactoryBoy](factoryboy.md)
    factories from a [pydantic](pydantic.md) model.
    
    ```python
    from datetime import date, datetime
    from typing import List, Union
    
    from pydantic import BaseModel, UUID4
    
    from pydantic_factories import ModelFactory
    
    class Person(BaseModel):
        id: UUID4
        name: str
        hobbies: List[str]
        age: Union[float, int]
        birthday: Union[datetime, date]
    
    class PersonFactory(ModelFactory):
        __model__ = Person
    
    result = PersonFactory.build()
    ```

### [Package Management](python_package_management.md)

* New: Compare Poetry, Pipenv and PDM package management tools.

    Pipenv has broad support. It is an official project of the Python Packaging
    Authority, alongside pip. It's also supported by the Heroku Python buildpack,
    which is useful for anyone with Heroku or Dokku-based deployment strategies.
    
    Poetry is a one-stop shop for dependency management and package management. It
    simplifies creating a package, managing its dependencies, and publishing it.
    Compared to Pipenv, Poetry's separate add and install commands are more
    explicit, and it's faster for everything except for a full dependency install.
    
    I liked Poetry most, and in the end I didn't analyze `pdm`.

### [Goodconf](goodconf.md)

* New: Introduce goodconf the pyndantic YAML friendly configuration management.

    [goodconf](https://github.com/lincolnloop/goodconf/) is a thin wrapper over
    Pydantic's settings management. Allows you to define configuration variables and
    load them from environment or JSON/YAML file. Also generates initial
    configuration files and documentation for your defined configuration.

### [Pipenv](pipenv.md)

* New: Introduce the pipenv package manager.

    [Pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv) is a tool that aims to bring the best
    of all packaging worlds (bundler, composer, npm, cargo, yarn, etc.) to the
    Python world.

### [Poetry](python_poetry.md)

* New: Deeply introduce Poetry, a python package manager.

    [Poetry](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry) is a command line program that
    helps you declare, manage and install dependencies of Python projects, ensuring
    you have the right stack everywhere.