# [Projects](projects.md)

* Improvement: Add rsarai hq to interesting sources for lifelogging.

# Coding

## Python

### [questionary](questionary.md)

* Correction: Correct the link to the examples.

# Operative Systems

## [Linux](tahoe.md)

* New: Introduce Tahoe-LAFS.

    [Tahoe-LAFS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tahoe-LAFS) is a free and open,
    secure, decentralized, fault-tolerant, distributed data store and distributed
    file system.
    
    Tahoe-LAFS is a system that helps you to store files. You run a client program
    on your computer, which talks to one or more storage servers on other computers.
    When you tell your client to store a file, it will encrypt that file, encode it
    into multiple pieces, then spread those pieces out among multiple servers. The
    pieces are all encrypted and protected against modifications. Later, when you
    ask your client to retrieve the file, it will find the necessary pieces, make
    sure they haven’t been corrupted, reassemble them, and decrypt the result.
    

### [elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md)

* Correction: Correct the way of closing an index.

    Use a POST instead of a GET

* New: [Explain how to calculate the amount of memory required to do KNN operations.](elasticsearch.md#knn-sizing)
* New: [Explain how to do KNN warmup to speed up the queries.](elasticsearch.md#knn-warmup)
* New: [Explain how to deal with the AWS service timeout.](elasticsearch.md#deal-with-the-aws-timeout-service)

### [Jellyfin](jellyfin.md)

* Improvement: [Explain how to fix the wrong image covers.](jellyfin.md#wrong-image-covers)

    Remove all the `jpg` files of the directory and then fetch again the data from
    your favourite media management software.

* New: [Track the issue of trailers not working.](jellyfin.md#issues)
* New: [Explain how to fix the green bars in the reproduction.](jellyfin.md#green-bars-in-the-reproduction)

### [LUKS](luks.md)

* New: [Explain how to change a LUKS key.](luks.md#change-a-key)

    ```bash
    cryptsetup luksChangeKey {{ luks_device }} -s 0
    ```

### [Oracle Database](oracle_database.md)

* New: Explain how to build an oracle database docker while feeling dirty inside.

### [Syncthing](syncthing.md)

* New: [Investigate if Syncthing can be used over Tor.](syncthing.md#syncthing-over-tor)

    I haven't found a reliable and safe way to do it, but I've set a path to follow if you're interested.

## Android

### [OsmAnd](osmand.md)

* New: Introduce OsmAnd.

    [OsmAnd](https://osmand.net) is a mobile application for global map viewing and
    navigating based on [OpenStreetMaps](https://osm.org). Perfect if you're looking
    for a privacy focused, community maintained open source alternative to google
    maps.