# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helm Git](helm_git.md)

* Correction: Suggest version 0.8.0 until issue is solved.

    Newer versions have
    a [bug](https://github.com/aslafy-z/helm-git/issues/131) that makes
    impossible to use helm_git with a repository that contains just one
    chart in the root of the git repository.

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus Install](prometheus_installation.md)

* Correction: Add warning that helm 2 support is dropped.

    If you want to use the helm chart above 11.1.7 you need to use helm 3.

# Health

## [Sleep](sleep.md)

* New: [Explain the sleep cycle.](sleep.md#the-sleep-cycle)

    Humans cycle through two types of sleep in a regular pattern throughout
    the
    night with a period of 90 minutes. They were called non-rapid eye movement
    (NREM) and rapid
    eye movement (REM).

    I answer the questions:

    * What is the period of the REM/NREM cycle?
    * What happens to your body in REM and NREM phases?
    * How does the ratio of REM/NREM changes throughout the night? with
        a possible explanation.
    * Why sleeping 6 hours can make you loose up to 90% of your REM or NREM
    phases?

* New: [Explain sleeping time and sense distortions.](sleep.md#sleeping-time-and-sense-distortions)

    Answer the questions:

    * Why time feels longer in our dreams?
    * How do we loose awareness of the outside world when sleeping?

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* New: Describe navigation objects used in plugins.

    Explain how to use the [Page](mkdocs.md#page),
    [Section](mkdocs.md#section), and [SectionPage](mkdocs.md#sectionpage)
    objects.

* Correction: You need to edit the nav in the on_nav and not in the on_files event.

    Even though it seems more easy to create the nav structure in the
    [`on_files`](#on_files) event, by editing the `nav` dictionary of the
    `config`
    object, there is no way of returning the `config` object in that event, so
    we're
    forced to do it in this event.

# Arts

## [Origami](origami.md)

* New: Add mark1626 digital garden article on origamis.
