# [Projects](projects.md)

* New: [Introduce seedling self-hosted map project.](projects.md#self-hosted-map)

    I love maps, as well as traveling and hiking. This project aims to create a web
    interface that let's me interact with the data gathered throughout my life. I'd
    like to:
    
    * Browse the waypoints and routes that I've done.
    * Create routes and export the gpx.
    * Be able to search through the data
    * Plan trips

* New: [Introduce the seed project to.](projects.md#switch-to-a-better-browser)
* New: [Add the Life seedling project.](projects.md#life)

    Life is a real time sandbox role game where you play as yourself surviving in today's
    world.
    

* New: [Add bruty to the dormant plant projects.](projects.md#bruty)

    [bruty](https://github.com/lyz-code/bruty) is a Python program to bruteforce dynamic web applications with Selenium.

# Coding

## [Python](python.md)

* Improvement: Add textual as interesting library to explore.

    [textual](https://github.com/willmcgugan/textual): Textual is a TUI (Text User Interface) framework for Python using Rich as a renderer.

### [Click](click.md)

* Improvement: Explain how to change the command line help description.

### [Configure Docker to host the application](docker.md)

* New: [Explain how to use watchtower to keep docker containers updated.](docker.md#how-to-keep-containers-updated)

    With [watchtower](https://containrrr.dev/watchtower/) you can update the running
    version of your containerized app simply by pushing a new image to the Docker
    Hub or your own image registry. Watchtower will pull down your new image,
    gracefully shut down your existing container and restart it with the same
    options that were used when it was deployed initially.
    

* Correction: Explain how to run the watchtower checks immediately.

    With the `--run-once` flag
    

### [FastAPI](fastapi.md)

* New: [Explain how to make redirections with fastapi.](fastapi.md#create-redirections)
* New: [Explain how to run a FastAPI server in the background for testing purposes.](fastapi.md#run-a-fastapi-server-in-the-background-for-testing-purposes)

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: [Explain how to set a timeout for your tests.](pytest.md#setting-a-timeout-for-your-tests)

    Using [pytest-timeout](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-timeout/).

* New: [Explain how to rerun tests that fail sometimes.](pytest.md#rerun-tests-that-fail-sometimes)

    With [pytest-rerunfailures](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-rerunfailures/) that is
    a plugin for pytest that re-runs tests to eliminate intermittent failures. Using
    this plugin is generally a bad idea, it would be best to solve the reason why
    your code is not reliable. It's useful when you rely on non robust third party
    software in a way that you can't solve, or if the error is not in your code but
    in the testing code, and again you are not able to fix it.
    
    feat(python_snippets#Create combination of elements in groups of two):
    Explain how to create combination of elements in groups of two
    
    ```python
    >>> list(itertools.combinations('ABC', 2))
    [('A', 'B'), ('A', 'C'), ('B', 'C')]
    ```

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [Explain how to convert html code to readable plaintext.](python_snippets.md#convert-html-to-readable-plaintext)

    ```bash
    pip install html2text
    ```
    
    ```python
    import html2text
    html = open("foobar.html").read()
    print(html2text.html2text(html))
    ```

* New: [Explain how to parse a datetime from a string.](python_snippets.md#parse-a-datetime-from-a-string)

    ```python
    from dateutil import parser
    parser.parse("Aug 28 1999 12:00AM")  # datetime.datetime(1999, 8, 28, 0, 0)
    ```
    

### [Python Mysql](python_mysql.md)

* New: Explain how to interact with MySQL databases with Python.
* Correction: Correct the syntax of the left joins.

    Instead of using `ON users.id == addresses.user_id`, use `ON users.id = addresses.user_id`

### [Selenium](selenium.md)

* New: Explain how to use selenium with python.
* New: [Explain how to Set timeout of a response.](selenium.md#set-timeout-of-a-response)

    ```python
    driver.set_page_load_timeout(30)
    ```

* New: [Explain how to fix when Chromedriver hangs up unexpectedly.](selenium.md#chromedriver-hangs-up-unexpectedly)

    ```python
    os.environ["DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS"] = "/dev/null"
    ```
    

# DevOps

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [Jobs](kubernetes_jobs.md)

* New: [Explain how to rerun failed cronjobs.](kubernetes_jobs.md#rerunning-failed-jobs)

    If you have a job that has failed after the 6 default retries, it will show up
    in your monitorization forever, to fix it, you can manually trigger the job.
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get job "your-job" -o json \
        | jq 'del(.spec.selector)' \
        | jq 'del(.spec.template.metadata.labels)' \
        | kubectl replace --force -f -
    ```
    

## [Continuous Integration](ci.md)

* New: Explain how to troubleshoot the error: pathspec master did not match any file.

    Remove all git hooks with `rm -r .git/hooks`.
    

## Monitoring

### [Elasticsearch Exporter](elasticsearch_exporter.md)

* New: Introduce the prometheus elasticsearch exporter.

    The [elasticsearch exporter](https://github.com/prometheus-community/elasticsearch_exporter) allows
    monitoring [Elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md) clusters with [Prometheus](prometheus.md).
    
    Explain how to install it, configure the grafana dashboards and the
    alerts.
    

* Improvement: Add more elasticsearch alerts.

    Measure the search latency, search rate and create alerts on the garbage
    collector, json parser and circuit breaker errors
    

* New: Add alert on low number of healthy master nodes.

# Software Architecture

## [Domain Driven Design](domain_driven_design.md)

* Improvement: Add warning when migrating old code.

    You may be tempted to migrate all your old code to this architecture once
    you fall in love with it. Truth being told, it's the best way to learn how to
    use it, but it's time expensive too! [The last
    refactor](https://github.com/lyz-code/clinv/pull/40) I did required a
    change of 60% of the code. The upside is that I reduced the total lines of
    code a 25%.
    

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Explain how to split a file into many with equal number of lines.](linux_snippets.md#split-a-file-into-many-with-equal-number-of-lines)

    ```bash
    split -l 200000 filename
    ```

* New: [Explain how to identify what a string or file contains.](linux_snippets.md#identify-what-a-string-or-file-contains)

    Using [pywhat](https://github.com/bee-san/pyWhat)

### [dunst](dunst.md)

* New: Introduce dunst.

    [Dunst](https://dunst-project.org/) is a lightweight replacement for the
    notification daemons provided by most desktop environments. It’s very
    customizable, isn’t dependent on any toolkits, and therefore fits into those
    window manager centric setups we all love to customize to perfection.

### [elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md)

* Correction: Explain how to restore only some indices.

    ```bash
    curl -X POST "{{ url }}/_snapshot/{{ backup_path }}/{{ snapshot_name }}/_restore?pretty" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
    {
      "indices": "{{ index_to_restore }}",
    }'
    ```

* New: [Explain how to fix Circuit breakers triggers.](elasticsearch.md#fix-circuit-breakers-triggers)

# Arts

## Writing

### [Grammar and Orthography](orthography.md)

* New: [Explain what collocations are and how to avoid the word very.](orthography.md#use-collocations)

    Collocation refers to a natural combination of words that are closely affiliated
    with each other. They make it easier to avoid overused or ambiguous words like
    "very", "nice", or "beautiful", by using a pair of words that fit the context
    better and that have a more precise meaning.
    

* New: [Explain what can you use instead of I know.](orthography.md#stop-saying-i-know)

    Using "I know" may not be the best way to show the other person that you've got
    the information. You can take the chance to use other words that additionally
    gives more context on how you stand with the information you've received,
    thus improving the communication and creating a bond.
    

## [Cooking](cooking.md)

* New: Introduce the cooking art.

### [Cooking Basics](cooking_basics.md)

* New: [Refactor the perfect technique to boil an egg.](cooking_basics.md#boiling-an-egg)
* New: [Explain how to boil chickpeas when you've forgotten to soak them.](cooking_basics.md#boil-chickpeas-when-you've-forgotten-to-soak-them)

    Add a level teaspoon of baking soda to the pot and
    cook them as usual