# Coding

## Python

### [Click](click.md)

* New: [Invoke other commands from a command.](click.md#invoke-other-commands-from-a-command)

    This is a pattern that is generally discouraged with Click, but possible
    nonetheless. For this, you can use the `Context.invoke()` or `Context.forward()` methods.

### [Optimization](python_optimization.md)

* New: [Add tips on how to optimize your python command line tools.](python_optimization.md#tips)

    * [Minimize the relative import statements on command line tools](#minimize-the-relative-import-statements-on-command-line-tools):
    
        When developing a library, it's common to expose the main objects into the
        package `__init__.py` under the variable `__all__`. The problem with command
        line programs is that each time you run the command it will load those objects,
        which can mean an increase of 0.5s or even a second for each command, which is
        unacceptable.
    * [Don't dynamically install the package](#dont-dynamically-install-the-package):
    
        If you install the package with `pip install -e .` you will see an increase on
        the load time of ~0.2s. It is useful to develop the package, but when you use
        it, do so from a virtualenv that installs it directly without the `-e` flag.
    

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [Check if a dictionary is a subset of another.](python_snippets.md#check-if-a-dictionary-is-a-subset-of-another)

    If you have two dictionaries `big = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c':3}` and `small = {'c':
    3, 'a': 1}`, and want to check whether `small` is a subset of `big`, use the
    next snippet:
    
    ```python
    >>> small.items() <= big.items()
    True
    ```

* Correction: [Group or sort a list of dictionaries or objects by a specific key.](python_snippets.md#group-or-sort-a-list-of-dictionaries-or-objects-by-a-specific-key)

    Improve previous method with the concepts learned from the [official
    docs](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/sorting.html#sorting-basics)
    
    Particularly improve the sorting by multiple keys with the next
    function:
    
    ```python
    >>> def multisort(xs, specs):
        for key, reverse in reversed(specs):
            xs.sort(key=attrgetter(key), reverse=reverse)
        return xs
    
    >>> multisort(list(student_objects), (('grade', True), ('age', False)))
    [('dave', 'B', 10), ('jane', 'B', 12), ('john', 'A', 15)]
    ```
    

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: [Copy produces copy that modifies the original.](pydantic.md#copy-produces-copy-that-modifies-the-original)

    When copying a model, changing the value of an attribute on the copy updates the
    value of the attribute on the original. This only happens if `deep != True`. To
    fix it use: `model.copy(deep=True)`.

# DevOps

## Continuous Integration

### [Flakehell](flakeheaven.md)

* New: [Troubleshoot the 'Namespace' object has no attribute 'extended_default_ignore' error.](flakeheaven.md#troubleshooting)

    Add to your `pyproject.toml`:
    
    ```ini
    [tool.flakeheaven]
    extended_default_ignore=[]
    ```

### [Dependency managers](pip_tools.md)

* New: Sync the virtualenv libraries with the requirements files.

    ```python
    python -m piptools sync requirements.txt requirements-dev.txt
    ```

* Correction: Use `-c` instead of `-r` in the nested requirement files.

    To avoid duplication of version pins.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Kitty](kitty.md)

* New: Introduce kitty the terminal emulator.

    [kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/) is a fast, feature-rich, GPU based terminal
    emulator written in C and Python with nice features for the keyboard driven
    humans like me.