# Coding

## Python

### [Click](click.md)

* New: [Invoke other commands from a command.](click.md#invoke-other-commands-from-a-command)

    This is a pattern that is generally discouraged with Click, but possible
    nonetheless. For this, you can use the `Context.invoke()` or `Context.forward()` methods.

### [Optimization](python_optimization.md)

* New: [Add tips on how to optimize your python command line tools.](python_optimization.md#tips)

    * [Minimize the relative import statements on command line tools](#minimize-the-relative-import-statements-on-command-line-tools):
    
        When developing a library, it's common to expose the main objects into the
        package `__init__.py` under the variable `__all__`. The problem with command
        line programs is that each time you run the command it will load those objects,
        which can mean an increase of 0.5s or even a second for each command, which is
        unacceptable.
    * [Don't dynamically install the package](#dont-dynamically-install-the-package):
    
        If you install the package with `pip install -e .` you will see an increase on
        the load time of ~0.2s. It is useful to develop the package, but when you use
        it, do so from a virtualenv that installs it directly without the `-e` flag.
    

### [Pydantic](pydantic.md)

* New: [Copy produces copy that modifies the original.](pydantic.md#copy-produces-copy-that-modifies-the-original)

    When copying a model, changing the value of an attribute on the copy updates the
    value of the attribute on the original. This only happens if `deep != True`. To
    fix it use: `model.copy(deep=True)`.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Kitty](kitty.md)

* New: Introduce kitty the terminal emulator.

    [kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/) is a fast, feature-rich, GPU based terminal
    emulator written in C and Python with nice features for the keyboard driven
    humans like me.