# [Introduction](index.md)

* New: Simplify the landing page text.

# Meta

## [Wish list](projects.md)

* New: Feature mkdocs-rss-plugin as a solution of publishing mkdocs updates as an RSS.
* New: Add a git issue tracker and markdown formatter.

# Coding

## Python

### [GitPython](gitpython.md)

* New: Introduce the python library.

    [GitPython](https://gitpython.readthedocs.io) is a python library used
    to
    interact with git repositories, high-level like git-porcelain, or low-level
    like
    git-plumbing.
    
    It provides abstractions of git objects for easy access of repository data,
    and
    additionally allows you to access the git repository more directly using
    either
    a pure python implementation, or the faster, but more resource intensive git
    command implementation.
    
    Explain how to:
    
    * Initialize or load repositories.
    * Make commits.
    * Interact with the history.
    * Test applications that use it.

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: Add today's learned python tricks.

    * [Get system's timezone and use it in
    datetime](python_snippets.md#get-systems-timezone-and-use-it-in-datetime).
    * [Capitalize a sentence](python_snippets.md#capitalize-a-sentence).
    * [Get the last monday
    datetime](python_snippets.md#get-the-last-monday-datetime).

## [Issues](issues.md)

* New: Introduce the issue tracking document.

    I haven't found a tool to monitor the context it made me track certain
    software issues, so I get lost when updates come. Until a tool shows up,
    I'll use the good old markdown to keep track of them.

# Software Architecture

## [Architecture Decision Record](adr.md)

* New: [Update the ADR template with the week learnings.](adr.md#adr-template)

    * Add the Proposals and Date sections
    * Explain the possible Status states.
    * Add an [Ultisnip](https://github.com/SirVer/ultisnips) vim snippet.
    * Explain how I've used it to create [mkdocs-
    newsletter](https://github.com/lyz-code/mkdocs-newsletter).

# Health

## [Teeth](teeth.md)

* Correction: Recommend a regular clean instead of a deep clean.

# [Activism](anonymous_feedback.md)

* New: Introduce the anonymous feedback tool to improve diversity, equity and inclusion in an organization.

    Anonymous Feedback is a communication tool where people share feedback
    to
    teammates or other organizational members while protecting their identities.
    
    Until the safe space is built where direct feedback is viable, anonymous
    feedback gives these employees a mechanism to raise their concerns, practice
    their
    feedback-giving skills, test the waters, and understand how people perceive
    their constructive (and sometimes critical) opinions, thus building the
    needed
    trust.

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [mkdocs](mkdocs.md)

* New: Explain how to develop your own plugins.

# Arts

## [Writing](writing.md)

* New: Try vim-pencil without success, but love mdnav.

    [mdnav](https://github.com/chmp/mdnav) opens links to urls or files when
    pressing `enter` in normal mode over a markdown link, similar to `gx`
    but more powerful. I specially like the ability of following `[self
    referencing link][]` links, that allows storing the links at the bottom.

### [Build your own Digital Garden](build_your_own_wiki.md)

* New: Explain how to enable clickable navigation sections in your mkdocs repository.

    [oprypin](https://github.com/oprypin) has solved it with the
    [mkdocs-section-index](https://github.com/oprypin/mkdocs-section-index)
    plugin.

### [Digital Gardens](digital_garden.md)

* New: Introduce the digital garden concept.

    [Digital Garden](https://joelhooks.com/digital-garden) is a method of
    storing and maintaining knowledge in an maintainable, scalable and
    searchable way. They are also known as second brains.

## [Pilates](pilates.md)

* New: Introduce the art.

    [Pilates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilates) is a physical fitness
    system
    based on controlled movements putting emphasis on alignment, breathing,
    developing a strong core, and improving coordination and balance. The core
    (or
    powerhouse), consisting of the muscles of the abdomen, low back, and hips,
    is
    thought to be the key to a person's stability.
    
    Pilates' system allows for different exercises to be modified in range of
    difficulty from beginner to advanced or to any other level, and also in
    terms of
    the instructor and practitioner's specific goals and/or limitations.
    Intensity
    can be increased over time as the body adapts itself to the exercises.
    
    You can think of yoga, but without the spiritual aspects.
    
    Also added:
    
    * It's principles
    * The [swing from table](pilates.md#swing-from-table) exercise.