# Activism

## Antifascism

### [Antifascist Actions](antifascist_actions.md)

* New: [An open data initiative to map spanish fascist icons.](antifascist_actions.md#an-open-data-initiative-to-map-spanish-fascist-icons)

    The project [DeberíaDesaparecer](https://deberiadesaparecer.com) have created an
    open database of the remains of the spanish fascist regime icons. The
    visualization they've created is astonishing, and they've provided
    a [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc8jY6y0vcjQKNJBougQG_gTOUSfZGBhponOiwij9xVIwIafA/viewform?embedded=true)
    so that anyone can contribute to the dataset.

# Coding

## Python

### [Dash](python_sh.md)

* Correction: Deprecate in favour of Streamlit.

    [Streamlit](https://docs.streamlit.io/) is a much more easy, beautiful
    and clean library for the same purpose.

* New: [Running process in background.](python_sh.md#running-in-background)

    By default, each running command blocks until completion. If you have
    a long-running command, you can put it in the background with the `_bg=True`
    special kwarg:
    
    ```python
    sleep(3)
    print("...3 seconds later")
    
    p = sleep(3, _bg=True)
    print("prints immediately!")
    p.wait()
    print("...and 3 seconds later")
    ```
    
    You’ll notice that you need to call `RunningCommand.wait()` in order to exit
    after your command exits.
    
    Commands launched in the background ignore `SIGHUP`, meaning that when their
    controlling process (the session leader, if there is a controlling terminal)
    exits, they will not be signalled by the kernel. But because `sh` commands launch
    their processes in their own sessions by default, meaning they are their own
    session leaders, ignoring `SIGHUP` will normally have no impact. So the only time
    ignoring `SIGHUP` will do anything is if you use `_new_session=False`, in which case
    the controlling process will probably be the shell from which you launched
    python, and exiting that shell would normally send a `SIGHUP` to all child
    processes.
    
    If you want to terminate the process use `p.kill()`.

* New: [Output callbacks.](python_sh.md#output-callbacks)

    In combination with `_bg=True`, `sh` can use callbacks to process output
    incrementally by passing a callable function to `_out` and/or `_err`. This callable
    will be called for each line (or chunk) of data that your command outputs:
    
    ```python
    from sh import tail
    
    def process_output(line):
        print(line)
    
    p = tail("-f", "/var/log/some_log_file.log", _out=process_output, _bg=True)
    p.wait()
    ```
    
    To “quit” your callback, simply `return True`. This tells the command not to call
    your callback anymore. This does not kill the process though see [Interactive
    callbacks](#interactive-callbacks) for how to kill a process from a callback.
    
    The line or chunk received by the callback can either be of type str or bytes. If the output could be decoded using the provided encoding, a str will be passed to the callback, otherwise it would be raw bytes.

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: Change log level of a dependency.

    ```python
    caplog.set_level(logging.WARNING, logger="urllib3")
    ```

* New: [Show logging messages on the test run.](pytest.md#show-logging-messages-on-the-test-run)

    Add to your `pyproject.toml`:
    
    ```toml
    [tool.pytest.ini_options]
       log_cli = true
       log_cli_level = 10
    ```
    
    Or run it in the command itself `pytest -o log_cli=true --log-cli-level=10
    func.py`.
    
    Remember you can change the log level of the different components in case it's too verbose.

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [Create random number.](python_snippets.md#create-random-number)

    ```python
    import random
    a=random.randint(1,10)
    ```

* New: [Check if local port is available or in use.](python_snippets.md#check-if-local-port-is-available-or-in-use)

    Create a temporary socket and then try to bind to the port to see if it's
    available. Close the socket after validating that the port is available.
    
    ```python
    def port_in_use(port):
        """Test if a local port is used."""
        sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
        with suppress(OSError):
            sock.bind(("0.0.0.0", port))
            return True
        sock.close()
        return False
    ```

## [Git](git.md)

* Correction: [Update the git flow to match my current one.](git.md#)

## [Qwik](qwik.md)

* New: Introduce Qwik.

    [Qwik](https://qwik.builder.io) is a new kind of web framework that can deliver
    instantly load web applications at any size or complexity. Your sites and apps
    can boot with about 1kb of JS (regardless of application complexity), and
    achieve consistent performance at scale.
    
    You can see a good overview in the [Qwik
    presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0dC11DMR3fU&t=154s).
    

# DevOps

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [Kubectl](kubectl.md)

* New: [Port forward / Tunnel to an internal service.](kubectl.md#port-forward-/-tunnel-to-an-internal-service)

    If you have a service running in kubernetes and you want to directly access it
    instead of going through the usual path, you can use `kubectl port-forward`.
    
    `kubectl port-forward` allows using resource name, such as a pod name, service
    replica set or deployment, to select the matching resource to port forward to.
    For example, the next commands are equivalent:
    
    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward mongo-75f59d57f4-4nd6q 28015:27017
    kubectl port-forward deployment/mongo 28015:27017
    kubectl port-forward replicaset/mongo-75f59d57f4 28015:27017
    kubectl port-forward service/mongo 28015:27017
    ```
    
    The output is similar to this:
    
    ```bash
    Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:28015 -> 27017
    Forwarding from [::1]:28015 -> 27017
    ```
    
    If you don't need a specific local port, you can let `kubectl` choose and
    allocate the local port and thus relieve you from having to manage local port
    conflicts, with the slightly simpler syntax:
    
    ```bash
    $: kubectl port-forward deployment/mongo :27017
    
    Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:63753 -> 27017
    Forwarding from [::1]:63753 -> 27017
    ```

* New: [Run a command against a specific context.](kubectl.md#run-a-command-against-a-specific-context)

    If you have multiple contexts and you want to be able to run commands against
    a context that you have access to but is not your active context you can use the
    `--context` global option for all `kubectl` commands:
    
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --context <context_B>
    ```
    
    To get a list of available contexts use `kubectl config get-contexts`

## Monitoring

### [Prometheus](prometheus.md)

* New: [Accessing Prometheus metrics through python.](prometheus.md#accessing-prometheus-metrics-through-python)

    ```python
    import requests
    
    response = requests.get(
        "http://127.0.0.1:9090/api/v1/query",
        params={"query": "container_cpu_user_seconds_total"},
    )
    ```