# Activism

## [Environmentalism](environmentalism.md)

* New: [Saving water.](environmentalism.md#saving-water)

    Here are some small things I'm doing to save some water each day:
    
    - Use the watering can or a bucket to gather the shower water until it's warm
      enough. I use this water to flush the toilet. It would be best if it were
      possible to fill up the toilet's deposit, but it's not easy.
    - Use a glass of water to wet the toothbrush and rinse my mouth instead of using
      running water.

# Life Management

## Task Management

### [OpenProject](openproject.md)

* New: [Deal with big number of tasks.](openproject.md#deal-with-big-number-of-tasks)

    As the number of tasks increase, the views of your work packages starts becoming
    more cluttered. As you
    [can't fold the hierarchy trees](https://community.openproject.org/projects/openproject/work_packages/31918/activity)
    it's difficult to efficiently manage your backlog.
    
    I've tried setting up a work package type that is only used for the subtasks so
    that they are filtered out of the view, but then you don't know if they are
    parent tasks unless you use the details window. It's inconvenient but having to
    collapse the tasks every time it's more cumbersome. You'll also need to reserve
    the selected subtask type (in my case `Task`) for the subtasks.

* New: [Sorting work package views.](openproject.md#sorting-work-package-views)

    They are sorted alphabetically, so the only way to sort them is by prepending a
    number. You can do `0. Today` instead of `Today`. It's good to do big increments
    between numbers, so the next report could be `10. Backlog`. That way if you
    later realize you want another report between Today and Backlog, you can use
    `5. New Report` and not rename all the reports.

* New: [Pasting text into the descriptions.](openproject.md#pasting-text-into-the-descriptions)

    When I paste the content of the clipboard in the description, all new lines are
    removed (`\n`), the workaround is to paste it inside a `code snippet`.

# [DevOps](ombi.md)

* New: Introduce Ombi.

    [Ombi](https://ombi.io/) is a self-hosted web application that automatically
    gives your shared Jellyfin users the ability to request content by themselves!
    Ombi can be linked to multiple TV Show and Movie DVR tools to create a seamless
    end-to-end experience for your users.
    
    If Ombi is not for you, you may try [Overseerr](https://overseerr.dev/).

## Hardware

### [Pedal PC](pedal_pc.md)

* New: Introduce Pedal PC.

    The Pedal PC idea gathers crazy projects that try to use the energy of your
    pedaling while you are working on your PC. The most interesting is
    [PedalPC](https://www.pedalpc.com/), but still crazy.
    
    [Pedal-Power](http://pedal-power.com/) is another similar project, although it
    looks unmaintained.

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [aleph](aleph.md)

* New: Introduce Aleph.

    [Aleph](https://github.com/alephdata/aleph) is a tool for indexing large amounts
    of both documents (PDF, Word, HTML) and structured (CSV, XLS, SQL) data for easy
    browsing and search. It is built with investigative reporting as a primary use
    case. Aleph allows cross-referencing mentions of well-known entities (such as
    people and companies) against watchlists, e.g. from prior research or public
    datasets.

### [elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md)

* New: [Searching documents.](elasticsearch.md#searching-documents)

    We use HTTP requests to talk to ElasticSearch. A HTTP request is made up of
    several components such as the URL to make the request to, HTTP verbs (GET, POST
    etc) and headers. In order to succinctly and consistently describe HTTP requests
    the ElasticSearch documentation uses cURL command line syntax. This is also the
    standard practice to describe requests made to ElasticSearch within the user
    community.
    
    An example HTTP request using CURL syntax looks like this:
    
    ```bash
    curl -XPOST "https://localhost:9200/_search" -d' { "query": { "match_all": {} }
    }'
    ```

### [VSCodium](vscodium.md)

* New: Introduce VSCodium.

    [VSCodium](https://github.com/VSCodium/vscodium) are binary releases of VS Code
    without MS branding/telemetry/licensing.
    

## Android

### [Android Tips](android_tips.md)

* New: [Extend the life of your battery.](android_tips.md#extend-the-life-of-your-battery)

    [Research](https://accubattery.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/210224725-Charging-research-and-methodology)
    has shown that keeping your battery charged between 0% and 80% can make your
    battery's lifespan last 2x longer than when you use a full battery cycle from
    0-100%.
    
    As a non root user you can
    [install Accubattery](https://www.getdroidtips.com/custom-battery-charge-limit-android/)
    (not in F-droid :( ) to get an alarm when the battery reaches 80% so that you
    can manually unplug it. Instead of leaving the mobile charge in the night and
    stay connected at 100% a lot of hours until you unplug, charge it throughout the
    day.

### [GrapheneOS](grapheneos.md)

* New: Introduce GrapheneOS.

    GrapheneOS is a private and secure mobile operating system with great
    functionality and usability. It starts from the strong baseline of the Android
    Open Source Project (AOSP) and takes great care to avoid increasing attack
    surface or hurting the strong security model. GrapheneOS makes substantial
    improvements to both privacy and security through many carefully designed
    features built to function against real adversaries. The project cares a lot
    about usability and app compatibility so those are taken into account for all of
    our features.

# Arts

## Maker

### [Redox](redox.md)

* New: Installation instructions.

    First flash:
    
    Download the hex from the via website
    
    Try to flash it many times reseting the promicros.
    
    ```bash
    sudo avrdude -b 57600 -p m32u4 -P /dev/ttyACM0 -c avr109 -D -U flash:w:redox_rev1_base_via.hex
    ```
    
    Once the write has finished install via:
    
    https://github.com/the-via/releases/releases
    
    Reboot the computer
    
    Launch it with `via-nativia`.