# [Projects](projects.md)

* New: [Beancount forecast.](projects.md#beancount-forecast)

    I'd like to see a forecast of the evolution of my accounts given an amount of
    time. Maybe by doing seasonality analysis and forecast in time series as stated
    [here](https://medium.com/swlh/seasonality-analysis-and-forecast-in-time-series-b8fbba820327) and [here](https://towardsdatascience.com/finding-seasonal-trends-in-time-series-data-with-python-ce10c37aa861).
    
    It will also be interesting to see for a given account the evolution of the
    subaccounts.

# [Coding](vuejs.md)

* New: [Apply a style to a component given a condition.](vue_snippets.md#apply-a-style-to-a-component-given-a-condition)

    if you use `:class` you can write javascript code in the value, for example:
    
    ```html
    <b-form-radio
      class="user-retrieve-language p-2"
      :class="{'font-weight-bold': selected === language.key}"
      v-for="language in languages"
      v-model="selected"
      :id="language.key"
      :checked="selected === language.key"
      :value="language.key"
    >
    ```

* New: [Debug Jest tests.](vuejs.md#debug-jest-tests)

    If you're not developing in Visual code, running a debugger is not easy in the
    middle of the tests, so to debug one you can use `console.log()` statements and
    when you run them with `yarn test:unit` you'll see the traces.
    

## Python

### [Type Hints](type_hints.md)

* New: [Using `typing.cast`.](type_hints.md#using-`typing.cast`)

    Sometimes the type hints of your program don't work as you expect, if you've
    given up on fixing the issue you can `# type: ignore` it, but if you know what
    type you want to enforce, you can use
    [`typing.cast()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html#typing.cast)
    explicitly or implicitly from `Any` with type hints. With casting we can force
    the type checker to treat a variable as a given type.
    
    The main case to reach for `cast()` are when the type hints for a module are
    either missing, incomplete, or incorrect. This may be the case for third party
    packages, or occasionally for things in the standard library.
    
    Take this example:
    
    ```python
    import datetime as dt
    from typing import cast
    
    from third_party import get_data
    
    data = get_data()
    last_import_time = cast(dt.datetime, data["last_import_time"])
    ```
    
    Imagine `get_data()` has a return type of `dict[str, Any]`, rather than using
    stricter per-key types with a `TypedDict`. From reading the documentation or
    source we might find that the `last_import_time` key always contains
    a `datetime` object. Therefore, when we access it, we can wrap it in a `cast()`,
    to tell our type checker the real type rather than continuing with `Any`.
    
    When we encounter missing, incomplete, or incorrect type hints, we can
    contribute back a fix. This may be in the package itself, its related stubs
    package, or separate stubs in Python’s typeshed. But until such a fix is
    released, we will need to use `cast()` to make our code pass type checking.

## [Javascript](javascript.md)

* New: [Coalescent operator.](javascript.md#coalescent-operator)

    Is similar to the Logical `OR` operator (`||`), except instead of relying on
    truthy/falsy values, it relies on "nullish" values (there are only 2 nullish
    values, `null` and `undefined`).
    
    This means it's safer to use when you treat falsy values like `0` as valid.
    
    Similar to Logical `OR`, it functions as a control-flow operator; it evaluates to the first not-nullish value.
    
    It was introduced in Chrome 80 / Firefox 72 / Safari 13.1. It has no IE support.
    
    ```js
    console.log(4 ?? 5);
    // 4, since neither value is nullish
    console.log(null ?? 10);
    // 10, since 'null' is nullish
    console.log(undefined ?? 0);
    // 0, since 'undefined' is nullish
    // Here's a case where it differs from
    // Logical OR (||):
    console.log(0 ?? 5); // 0
    console.log(0 || 5); // 5
    ```

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Git checkout to main with master as a fallback.](linux_snippets.md#git-checkout-to-main-with-master-as-a-fallback)

    I usually use the alias `gcm` to change to the main branch of the repository,
    given the change from [main to master](git.md#renaming-from-master-to-main) now
    I have some repos that use one or the other, but I still want `gcm` to go to the
    correct one. The solution is to use:
    
    ```bash
    alias gcm='git checkout "$(git symbolic-ref refs/remotes/origin/HEAD | cut -d'/' -f4)"'
    ```