# DevOps

## Continuous Integration

### [Drone](drone.md)

* New: Introduce Drone.

    [Drone](https://www.drone.io/) is a modern Continuous Integration platform that
    empowers busy teams to automate their build, test and release workflows using
    a powerful, cloud native pipeline engine.
    
    Check how to install it [here](drone.md#installation)

## Storage

### [NAS](nas.md)

* New: Choose the Power Supply Unit and CPU cooler.

    After doing some [basic research](cpu.md#cpu-coolers) I've chosen the [Dark Rock
    4](https://www.bequiet.com/en/cpucooler/1376) but just because the [Enermax
    ETS-T50 AXE Silent
    Edition](https://www.enermaxeu.com/products/cpu-cooling/air-cooling/ets-t50-axe/)
    doesn't fit my case :(.
    
    Using [PCPartPicker](https://pcpartpicker.com/list/) I've seen that with 4 disks
    it consumes approximately 264W, when I have the 8 disks, it will consume up to
    344W, if I want to increase the ram then it will reach 373W. So in theory I can go with a 400W power supply unit.
    
    You need to make sure that it has enough wires to connect to all the disks.
    Although that usually is not a problem as there are adapters:
    
    * [Molex to
        sata](https://www.amazon.com/CB-44SATA-Individually-Sleeved-Connector-Premium/dp/B0036ORCIA/ref=sr_1_13?ie=UTF8&qid=1409942557&sr=8-13&keywords=sleeved+molex+to+sata&tag=linus21-20)
    * [Sata to sata](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0086OGN9E/ref=wl_it_dp_o_pd_nS_ttl?_encoding=UTF8&colid=2IW6VX45YF9B0&coliid=I1QUIF5VMSN2SG&psc=1&tag=linus21-20)
    
    After an [analysis on the different power supply units](psu.md), I've decided to
    go with [Be Quiet! Straight Power 11 450W Gold](https://www.bequiet.com/en/powersupply/1251)

## Hardware

### [CPU](cpu.md)

* New: [Add the market analysis.](cpu.md#market-analysis)
* New: [Analyze the cpu coolers.](cpu.md#cpu-coolers)
* New: [Analyze the use of cpu thermal paste.](cpu.md#cpu-thermal-paste)

    Thermal paste is designed to minimize microscopic air gaps and irregularities
    between the surface of the cooler and the CPU's IHS (integrated heat spreader),
    the piece of metal which is built into the top of the processor.
    
    Good thermal paste can have a profound impact on your performance, because it
    will allow your processor to transfer more of its waste heat to your cooler,
    keeping your processor running cool.
    
    Most pastes are comprised of ceramic or metallic materials suspended within
    a proprietary binder which allows for easy application and spread as well as
    simple cleanup.
    
    These thermal pastes can be electrically conductive or non-conductive, depending
    on their specific formula. Electrically conductive thermal pastes can carry
    current between two points, meaning that if the paste squeezes out onto other
    components, it can cause damage to motherboards and CPUs when you switch on the
    power. A single drop out of place can lead to a dead PC, so extra care is
    imperative.
    
    Liquid metal compounds are almost always electrically conductive, so while these
    compounds provide better performance than their paste counterparts, they require
    more focus and attention during application. They are very hard to remove if you
    get some in the wrong place, which would fry your system.
    
    In contrast, traditional thermal paste compounds are relatively simple for every
    experience level. Most, but not all, traditional pastes are electrically
    non-conductive.
    
    Most cpu coolers come with their own thermal paste, so check yours before buying
    another one.

### [Power Supply Unit](psu.md)

* New: Introduce Power Supply Unit.

    [Power supply unit](https://linuxhint.com/pc-power-supply-unit/) is the component
    of the computer that sources power from the primary source (the power coming
    from your wall outlet) and delivers it to its motherboard and all its
    components. Contrary to the common understanding, the PSU does not supply power
    to the computer; it instead converts the AC (Alternating Current) power from the
    source to the DC (Direct Current) power that the computer needs.
    
    There are two types of PSU: Linear and Switch-mode. Linear power supplies have
    a built-in transformer that steps down the voltage from the main to a usable one
    for the individual parts of the computer. The transformer makes the Linear PSU
    bulky, heavy, and expensive. Modern computers have switched to the switch-mode
    power supply, using switches instead of a transformer for voltage regulation.
    They’re also more practical and economical to use because they’re smaller,
    lighter, and cheaper than linear power supplies.
    
    PSU need to deliver at least the amount of power that each component requires,
    if it needs to deliver more, it simply won't work.
    
    Another puzzling question for most consumers is, “Does a PSU supply constant
    wattage to the computer?” The answer is a flat No. The wattage you see on the
    PSUs casing or labels only indicates the maximum power it can supply to the
    system, theoretically. For example, by theory, a 500W PSU can supply a maximum
    of 500W to the computer. In reality, the PSU will draw a small portion of the
    power for itself and distributes power to each of the PC components according to
    its need. The amount of power the components need varies from 3.3V to 12V. If
    the total power of the components needs to add up to 250W, it would only use
    250W of the 500W, giving you an overhead for additional components or future
    upgrades.
    
    Additionally, the amount of power the PSU supplies varies during peak periods
    and idle times. When the components are pushed to their limits, say when a video
    editor maximizes the GPU for graphics-intensive tasks, it would require more
    power than when the computer is used for simple tasks like web-browsing. The
    amount of power drawn from the PSU would depend on two things; the amount of
    power each component requires and the tasks that each component performs.
    
    I've also added the next sections:
    
    * [Power supply efficiency](psu.md#power-supply-efficiency)
    * [Power supply shopping tips](psu.md#power-supply-shopping-tips)
    * [Market analysis](psu.md#market-analysis)
    

# Arts

## Video Gaming

### [King Arthur Gold](kag.md)

* New: [Builder guides.](kag.md#builder-guides)

    [Turtlebutt and Bunnie](https://deynarde.github.io/kag-builder-guide)
    guide is awesome.