# Coding

## Python

### [BeautifulSoup](beautifulsoup.md)

* New: Introduce BeautifulSoup and how to use it.

    [BeautifulSoup](https://beautiful-soup-4.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a Python
    library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files. It works with your favorite
    parser to provide idiomatic ways of navigating, searching, and modifying the
    parse tree.

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: [Using fixtures at class level.](pytest.md#using-fixtures-at-class-level)

    Sometimes test functions do not directly need access to a fixture object. For
    example, tests may require to operate with an empty directory as the current
    working directory but otherwise do not care for the concrete directory.
    
    ```python
    @pytest.mark.usefixtures("cleandir")
    class TestDirectoryInit:
        ...
    ```
    Due to the `usefixtures` marker, the `cleandir` fixture will be required for the
    execution of each test method, just as if you specified a `cleandir` function
    argument to each of them.
    
    You can specify multiple fixtures like this:
    
    ```python
    @pytest.mark.usefixtures("cleandir", "anotherfixture")
    ```

* Correction: Improve the snippet to run some tests in serial instead of parallel.

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [How to close a subprocess process.](python_snippets.md#how-to-close-a-subprocess-process)

    ```python
    subprocess.terminate()
    ```

## [HTML](html.md)

* New: [HTML beautifier.](html.md#html-beautifier)

    If you encounter html code that it's not well indented  you can use [html beautify](https://htmlbeautify.com).
    

# DevOps

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [EKS](eks.md)

* New: [Pod limit per node.](eks.md#pod-limit-per-node)

    AWS EKS supports native VPC networking with the Amazon VPC Container Network
    Interface (CNI) plugin for Kubernetes. Using this plugin allows Kubernetes Pods
    to have the same IP address inside the pod as they do on the VPC network.
    
    This is a great feature but it introduces a limitation in the number of Pods per
    EC2 Node instance. Whenever you deploy a Pod in the EKS worker Node, EKS creates
    a new IP address from VPC subnet and attach to the instance.
    
    The formula for defining the maximum number of pods per instance is as follows:
    
    ```
    N * (M-1) + 2
    ```
    
    Where:
    
    * `N` is the number of Elastic Network Interfaces (ENI) of the instance type.
    * `M` is the number of IP addresses of a single ENI.
    
    So, for `t3.small`, this calculation is `3 * (4-1) + 2 = 11`. For a list of all
    the instance types and their limits see [this document](https://github.com/awslabs/amazon-eks-ami/blob/master/files/eni-max-pods.txt)

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Anki](anki.md)

* New: [Use anki connect with python.](anki.md#usage)