# Coding

## Languages

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: [The tmp_path fixture.](pytest.md#the-tmp_path-fixture)

    You can use the `tmp_path` fixture which will provide a temporary directory
    unique to the test invocation, created in the base temporary directory.
    
    `tmp_path` is a `pathlib.Path` object. Here is an example test usage:
    
    ```python
    def test_create_file(tmp_path):
        d = tmp_path / "sub"
        d.mkdir()
        p = d / "hello.txt"
        p.write_text(CONTENT)
        assert p.read_text() == CONTENT
        assert len(list(tmp_path.iterdir())) == 1
        assert 0
    ```

* Correction: [Deprecate the tmpdir fixture.](pytest.md#the-tmpdir-fixture)

    Warning: Don't use `tmpdir` use `tmp_path` instead because `tmpdir` uses `py`
    which is unmaintained and has unpatched vulnerabilities.

### [GitPython](python_snippets.md)

* Correction: Deprecate tmpdir in favour of tmp_path.
* New: [Pad integer with zeros.](python_snippets.md#pad-integer-with-zeros)

    ```python
    >>> length = 1
    >>> print(f'length = {length:03}')
    length = 001
    ```

# DevOps

## [Continuous Integration](mdformat.md)

* New: [Issues.](mdformat.md#issues)

    - It doesn't yet
      [support admonitions](https://github.com/executablebooks/mdformat/issues/309)
    - You can't
      [ignore some files](https://github.com/executablebooks/mdformat/issues/359),
      nor
      [some part of the file](https://github.com/executablebooks/mdformat/issues/53)
    

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Df and du showing different results.](linux_snippets.md#df-and-du-showing-different-results)

    Sometimes on a linux machine you will notice that both `df` command (display
    free disk space) and `du` command (display disk usage statistics) report
    different output. Usually, `df` will output a bigger disk usage than `du`.
    
    The `du` command estimates file space usage, and the `df` command shows file
    system disk space usage.
    
    There are many reasons why this could be happening:
    
    * [Disk mounted over data](linux_snippets.md#disk-mounted-over-data)
    * [Used deleted files](linux_snippets.md#used-deleted-files)

* New: [Clean up docker data.](linux_snippets.md#clean-up-docker-data)

    To remove unused `docker` data you can run `docker system prune -a`. This will
    remove:
    
    - All stopped containers
    - All networks not used by at least one container
    - All images without at least one container associated to them
    - All build cache
    
    Sometimes that's not enough, and your `/var/lib/docker` directory still weights
    more than it should. In those cases:
    
    - Stop the `docker` service.
    - Remove or move the data to another directory
    - Start the `docker` service.
    
    In order not to loose your persisted data, you need to configure your dockers to
    mount the data from a directory that's not within `/var/lib/docker`.

### [aleph](aleph.md)

* New: [Problems accessing redis locally.](aleph.md#problems-accessing-redis-locally)

    If you're with the VPN connected, turn it off.

* New: [PDB behaves weird.](aleph.md#pdb-behaves-weird)

    Sometimes you have two traces at the same time, so each time you run a PDB
    command it jumps from pdb trace. Quite confusing. Try to `c` the one you don't
    want so that you're left with the one you want. Or put the `pdb` trace in a
    conditional that only matches one of both threads.

### [elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md)

* New: [Get documents that match a string.](elasticsearch.md#get-documents-that-match-a-string)

    ```bash
    curl \
        -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
        -XPOST "https://localhost:9200/_search" \
        -d' { "query": { "query_string": {"query": "test company"} }}'
    ```