# [Projects](projects.md)

* New: [Create an ordered list of digital gardens.](projects.md#create-an-ordered-list-of-digital-gardens)

    Created [Best-of Digital Gardens](https://github.com/lyz-code/best-of-digital-gardens) a [best-of-lists](https://github.com/best-of-lists/best-of) compilation of awesome list of digital gardens.

# [Coding](vuetify.md)

* New: Introduce Cypress.

    [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) is a next generation front end testing tool
    built for the modern web.

* New: Introduce Vite.

    [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/) is a build tool that aims to provide a faster
    and leaner development experience for modern web projects. It consists of two
    major parts:
    
    * A dev server that provides rich feature enhancements over native ES modules,
        for example extremely fast Hot Module Replacement (HMR).
    
    * A build command that bundles your code with Rollup, pre-configured to output
        highly optimized static assets for production.
    
    Vite is opinionated and comes with sensible defaults out of the box, but is also
    highly extensible via its Plugin API and JavaScript API with full typing
    support.

* New: Introduce Vitest.

    [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) is a blazing fast unit-test framework powered by
    Vite.

* New: [Display time ago from timestamp.](vue_snippets.md#display-time-ago-from-timestamp)

    Use [vue2-timeago](https://vue2-timeago.netlify.app/guide/timeago/timeago.html)
    
    Install with:
    
    ```bash
    npm install vue2-timeago@next
    ```

* New: Introduce Vuetify.

    [Vuetify](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/) is a Vue UI Library with beautifully
    handcrafted Material Components.
    

* New: Sum up all Cypress documentation.

    In particular how to:
    
    * Install it
    * Write tests
    * Setup the tests
    * Do component testing
    * Do visual regression testing

* New: [Truncate text given a height.](vue_snippets.md#truncate-text-given-a-height)

    By default css is able to truncate text with the size of the screen but only on
    one line, if you want to fill up a portion of the screen (specified in number of
    lines or height css parameter) and then truncate all the text that overflows,
    you need to use [vue-clamp](https://vue-clamp.vercel.app/).

* New: [Environment variables.](vuejs.md#environment-variables)

    If you're using Vue 3 and Vite you can use [the environment
    variables](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html) by defining them in
    `.env` files.
    
    You can specify environment variables by placing the following files in your
    project root:
    
    * `.env`: Loaded in all cases.
    * `.env.local`: Loaded in all cases, ignored by git.
    * `.env.[mode]`: Only loaded in specified mode.
    * `.env.[mode].local`: Only loaded in specified mode, ignored by git.
    
    An env file simply contains `key=value` pairs of environment variables, by
    default only variables that start with `VITE_` will be exposed.:
    
    ```
    DB_PASSWORD=foobar
    VITE_SOME_KEY=123
    ```
    
    Only `VITE_SOME_KEY` will be exposed as `import.meta.env.VITE_SOME_KEY` to your
    client source code, but `DB_PASSWORD` will not. So for example in a component
    you can use:
    
    ```vue
    export default {
      props: {},
      mounted() {
        console.log(import.meta.env.VITE_SOME_KEY)
      },
      data: () => ({
      }),
    }
    ```

* New: [Deploy with docker.](vuejs.md#deploying)

    And fight to make the environment variables of the docker work, the
    problem is that these environment variables are set at build time, and
    can't be changed at runtime by default, so you can't offer a generic
    fronted Docker and particularize for the different cases. I've literally
    cried for hours trying to find a solution for this until [José Silva came to my rescue](https://medium.com/js-dojo/vue-js-runtime-environment-variables-807fa8f68665).
    The tweak is to use a docker entrypoint to inject the values we want.

* New: [Testing.](vuetify.md#testing)

    I tried doing component tests with Jest, [Vitest](vitest.md) and [Cypress](cypress.md) and found no
    way of making component tests, they all fail one way or the other.
    
    E2E tests worked with Cypress however, that's going to be my way of action till
    this is solved.
    

## Python

### [Profiling](python_profiling.md)

* New: Added memray profiling tool.

    [memray](https://bloomberg.github.io/memray/) looks very promising.

## [Frontend Development](frontend_development.md)

* New: [Newbie tips.](frontend_development.md#newbie-tips)

    I've recently started learning how to make web frontends, I feel completely lost xD. I don't know even how to search well what I need, it's like going back to programming 101. So I'm seeing things that you don't see when you already are proficient in a language, so here are some tips.
    
    * [Don't resize your browser window](frontend_development.md#dont-resize-your-browser-window)
    * [Your frontend probably doesn't talk to your backend](frontend_development.md#your-frontend-probably-doesnt-talk-to-your-backend)
    * [Write testable code](frontend_development.md#write-testable-code)

## [CSS](css.md)

* New: [CSS Flexbox layout.](css.md#flexbox-layout)

    The Flexbox Layout aims at providing a more efficient way to lay out, align and
    distribute space among items in a container, even when their size is unknown
    and/or dynamic.

## Javascript

### [Javascript snippets](javascript_snippets.md)

* New: [Round a number.](javascript_snippets.md#round-a-number)

    ```javascript
    Math.round(2.5)
    ```

* New: [Remove focus from element.](javascript_snippets.md#remove-focus-from-element)

    ```javascript
    document.activeElement.blur();
    ```

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Trim silences of sound files.](linux_snippets.md#trim-silences-of-sound-files)

    To trim all silence longer than 2 seconds down to only 2 seconds long.
    
    ```bash
    sox in.wav out6.wav silence -l 1 0.1 1% -1 2.0 1%
    ```
    
    Note that SoX does nothing to bits of silence shorter than 2 seconds.
    
    If you encounter the `sox FAIL formats: no handler for file extension 'mp3'`
    error  you'll need to install the `libsox-fmt-all` package.

* New: [Adjust the replay gain of many sound files.](linux_snippets.md#adjust-the-replay-gain-of-many-sound-files)

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install python-rgain
    replaygain -f *.mp3
    ```

# Other

* New: Sum up all the VueJS documentation.