# [Coding](vuetify.md)

* New: [Themes.](vuetify.md#themes)

    Vuetify comes with two themes pre-installed, light and dark. To set the default
    theme of your application, use the `defaultTheme` option.
    
    !!! note "File: `src/plugins/vuetify.js`"
        ```javascript
        import { createApp } from 'vue'
        import { createVuetify } from 'vuetify'
    
        export default createVuetify({
          theme: {
            defaultTheme: 'dark'
          }
        })
        ```
    Adding new themes is as easy as defining a new property in the `theme.themes`
    object. A theme is a collection of colors and options that change the overall
    look and feel of your application. One of these options designates the theme as
    being either a light or dark variation. This makes it possible for Vuetify to
    implement Material Design concepts such as elevated surfaces having a lighter
    overlay color the higher up they are.
    
    !!! note "File: `src/plugins/vuetify.js`"
    
        ```javascript
        import { createApp } from 'vue'
        import { createVuetify, ThemeDefinition } from 'vuetify'
    
        export default createVuetify({
          theme: {
            defaultTheme: 'myCustomLightTheme',
            themes: {
              myCustomLightTheme: {
                dark: false,
                colors: {
                  background: '#FFFFFF',
                  surface: '#FFFFFF',
                  primary: '#510560',
                  'primary-darken-1': '#3700B3',
                  secondary: '#03DAC6',
                  'secondary-darken-1': '#018786',
                  error: '#B00020',
                  info: '#2196F3',
                  success: '#4CAF50',
                  warning: '#FB8C00',
                }
              }
            }
          }
        })
        ```
    
    To dynamically change theme during runtime.
    
    ```javascript
    <template>
      <v-app>
        <v-btn @click="toggleTheme">toggle theme</v-btn>
        ...
      </v-app>
    </template>
    
    <script>
    import { useTheme } from 'vuetify'
    
    export default {
      setup () {
        const theme = useTheme()
    
        return {
          theme,
          toggleTheme: () => theme.global.name.value = theme.global.current.value.dark ? 'light' : 'dark'
        }
      }
    }
    </script>
    ```
    
    Most components support the `theme` prop. When used, a new context is created
    for that specific component and all of its children. In the following example,
    the `v-btn` uses the dark theme applied by its parent `v-card`.
    
    ```javascript
    <template>
      <v-app>
        <v-card theme="dark">
          <!-- button uses dark theme -->
          <v-btn>foo</v-btn>
        </v-card>
      </v-app>
    </template>
    ```

* New: [Add more elements.](vuetify.md#elements)

    * [Cards](vuetify.md#cards)
    * [Carousels](vuetify.md#carousels)
    

## Generic Coding Practices

### [Use warnings to evolve your code](use_warnings.md)

* New: Change signature of method if you can.

    You can take the chance of the deprecation to change the signature of
    the function, so that if the user is using the old argument, it uses the
    old behaviour and gets the warning, and if it's using the new argument,
    it uses the new. The advantage of changing the signature is that you
    don't need to do another deprecation for the temporal argument flag.
    

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Add huey.

    [huey](https://github.com/coleifer/huey) is a little task queue for python.

* New: [Generators.](python.md#generators)

    Generator functions are a special kind of function that return a lazy iterator.
    These are objects that you can loop over like a list. However, unlike lists,
    lazy iterators do not store their contents in memory.
    
    An example would be an infinite sequence generator
    
    ```python
    def infinite_sequence():
        num = 0
        while True:
            yield num
            num += 1
    ```
    
    You can use it as a list:
    
    ```python
    for i in infinite_sequence():
    ...     print(i, end=" ")
    ...
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
    30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42
    [...]
    ```
    
    Instead of using a `for` loop, you can also call `next()` on the generator object
    directly. This is especially useful for testing a generator in the console:.
    
    ```python
    >>> gen = infinite_sequence()
    >>> next(gen)
    0
    >>> next(gen)
    1
    >>> next(gen)
    2
    >>> next(gen)
    3
    ```

### [BeautifulSoup](beautifulsoup.md)

* New: [Modifying the tree.](beautifulsoup.md#modifying-the-tree)

    `PageElement.replace_with()` removes a tag or string from the tree, and replaces
    it with the tag or string of your choice:
    
    ```python
    markup = '<a href="http://example.com/">I linked to <i>example.com</i></a>'
    soup = BeautifulSoup(markup)
    a_tag = soup.a
    
    new_tag = soup.new_tag("b")
    new_tag.string = "example.net"
    a_tag.i.replace_with(new_tag)
    
    a_tag
    ```
    
    Sometimes it doesn't work. If it doesn't use:
    
    ```python
    +a_tag.clear()
    a_tag.append(new_tag)
    ```

### [Boto3](boto3.md)

* New: [Add common ec2 functions.](boto3.md#ec2)

    * [Get instance types](boto3.md#get-instance-types)
    * [Get instance prices](boto3.md#get-instance-prices)

### [Feedparser](feedparser.md)

* New: [Parse a feed from a string.](feedparser.md#parse-a-feed-from-a-string)

    ```python
    >>> import feedparser
    >>> rawdata = """<rss version="2.0">
    <channel>
    <title>Sample Feed</title>
    </channel>
    </rss>"""
    >>> d = feedparser.parse(rawdata)
    >>> d['feed']['title']
    u'Sample Feed'
    ```

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [Define a property of a class.](python_snippets.md#define-a-property-of-a-class)

    If you're using Python 3.9 or above you can directly use the decorators:
    
    ```python
    class G:
        @classmethod
        @property
        def __doc__(cls):
            return f'A doc for {cls.__name__!r}'
    ```
    
    If you're not, the solutions are not that good.

* New: [Fix SIM113 Use enumerate.](python_snippets.md#fix-sim113-use-enumerate)

    Use `enumerate` to get a running number over an iterable.
    
    ```python
    idx = 0
    for el in iterable:
        ...
        idx += 1
    
    for idx, el in enumerate(iterable):
        ...
    ```

## [Git](git.md)

* Improvement: [Master to main branch change's controversy.](git.md#change's-controversy)

    The change is not free of controversy, for example in the [PDM
    project](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm/pull/1064) some people are not sure
    that it's needed for many reasons. Let's see each of them:
    
    * *The reason people are implementing the change is because other people are
        doing it*: After a quick search I found that the first one to do the change
        was [the software freedom conservancy with the Git
        project](https://sfconservancy.org/news/2020/jun/23/gitbranchname/). You can
        also see [Python](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/78786),
        [Django](https://github.com/django/django/pull/2692),
        [Redis](https://github.com/redis/redis/issues/3185),
        [Drupal](https://www.drupal.org/node/2275877),
        [CouchDB](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB-2248) and
        [Github](https://www.theserverside.com/feature/Why-GitHub-renamed-its-master-branch-to-main)'s
        statements.
    
       As we're not part of the deciding organisms of the collectives
        doing the changes, all we can use are their statements and discussions to
        guess what are the reasons behind their support of the change. Despite that
        some of them do use the argument that other communities do support the
        change to emphasize the need of the change, all of them mention that the
        main reason is that the term is offensive to some people.
    
    * *I don't see an issue using the term master*: If you relate to this statement
        it can be because you're not part of the communities that suffer the
        oppression tied to the term, and that makes you blind to the issue. It's
        a lesson I learned on my own skin throughout the years. There are thousand
        of situations, gestures, double meaning words and sentences that went
        unnoticed by me until I started discussing it with the people that are
        suffering them (women, racialized people, LGTBQI+, ...). Throughout my
        experience I've seen that the more privileged you are, the blinder you
        become. You can read more on privileged blindness
        [here](https://iveybusinessjournal.com/fighting-privilege-blindness/),
        [here](https://dojustice.crcna.org/article/becoming-aware-my-privilege) or
        [here](https://www.mindful.org/the-research-on-white-privilege-blindness/)
        (I've skimmed through the articles, and are the first articles I've found,
        there are probably better references).
    
        I'm not saying that privileged people are not aware of the issues or that
        they can even raise them. We can do so and more we read, discuss and train
        ourselves, the better we'll detect them. All I'm saying is that a non
        privileged person will always detect more because they suffer them daily.
    
        I understand that for you there is no issue using the word *master*, there
        wasn't an issue for me either until I saw these projects doing the change,
        again I was blinded to the issue as I'm not suffering it. That's because
        change is not meant for us, as we're not triggered by it. The change is
        targeted to the people that do perceive that `master` is an offensive term.
        What we can do is empathize with them and follow this tiny tiny tiny
        gesture. It's the least we can do.
    
        Think of a term that triggers you, such as *heil hitler*, imagine that those
        words were being used to define the main branch of your code, and that
        everyday you sit in front of your computer you see them. You'll probably be
        reminded of the historic events, concepts, feelings that are tied to that
        term each time you see it, and being them quite negative it can slowly mine
        you. Therefore it's legit that you wouldn't want to be exposed to that
        negative effects.
    
    * *I don't see who will benefit from this change*: Probably the people that
        belongs to communities that are and have been under constant oppression for
        a very long time, in this case, specially the racialized ones which have
        suffered slavery.
    
        Sadly you will probably won't see many the affected people speak in these
        discussions, first because there are not that many, sadly the IT world is
        dominated by middle aged, economically comfortable, white, cis, hetero,
        males. Small changes like this are meant to foster diversity in the
        community by allowing them being more comfortable. Secondly because when
        they see these debates they move on as they are so fed up on teaching
        privileged people of their privileges. They not only have to suffer the
        oppression, we also put the burden on their shoulders to teach us.
    
    As and ending thought, if you see yourself being specially troubled by the
    change, having a discomfort feeling and strong reactions. In my experience these
    signs are characteristic of privileged people that feel that their privileges
    are being threatened, I've felt them myself countless times. When I feel it,
    +I usually do two things, fight them as strong as I can, or embrace them, analyze
    them, and go to the root of them. Depending on how much energy I have I go with
    the easy or the hard one. I'm not saying that it's you're case, but it could
    be.
    

# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Helmfile](helmfile.md)

* Correction: Tweak the update process to make it more resilient.

    * Check that all the helm deployments are well deployed with `helm list -A | grep -v deployed`
    * Change the context to the production cluster before running the production steps

* New: [Fix Cannot patch X field is immutable error.](helmfile.md#cannot-patch-x-field-is-immutable)

    You may think that deleting the resource, usually a deployment or daemonset will
    fix it, but `helmfile apply` will end without any error, the resource won't be recreated
    , and if you do a `helm list`, the deployment will be marked as failed.
    
    The solution we've found is disabling the resource in the chart's values so that
    it's uninstalled an install it again.
    
    This can be a problem with the resources that have persistence. To patch it,
    edit the volume resource with `kubectl edit pv -n namespace volume_pvc`, change
    the `persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy` to `Retain`, apply the changes to uninstall,
    and when reinstalling configure the chart to use that volume (easier said than
    done).

## Automating Processes

### [cruft](cruft.md)

* New: Use `skip` to avoid problems with `.git`.

    Since `2.10.0` you can add a `skip` category inside the `.cruft.json`, so that it doesn't check that
    directory:
    
    ```json
    {
      "template": "xxx",
      "commit": "xxx",
      "checkout": null,
      "context": {
        "cookiecutter": {
           ...
        }
      },
      "directory": null,
      "skip": [
        ".git"
      ]
    }
    ```