# Coding

## Generic Coding Practices

### [Use warnings to evolve your code](use_warnings.md)

* New: Using warnings to evolve your package.

    Regardless of the [versioning system](versioning.md) you're using, once you
    reach your first stable version, the commitment to your end users must be that
    you give them time to adapt to the changes in your program. So whenever you want
    to introduce a breaking change release it under a new interface, and in
    parallel, start emitting `DeprecationWarning` or `UserWarning` messages whenever
    someone invokes the old one. Maintain this state for a defined period (for
    example six months), and communicate explicitly in the warning message the timeline for when users have
    to migrate.
    
    This gives everyone time to move to the new interface without breaking their
    system, and then the library may remove the change and get rid of the old design
    chains forever. As an added benefit, only people using the old interface will
    ever see the warning, as opposed to affecting everyone (as seen with the
    semantic versioning major version bump).
    

## [Python](python.md)

* New: Add humanize library.

    [humanize](https://github.com/python-humanize/humanize): This modest package contains various common humanization utilities, like turning a number into a fuzzy human-readable duration ("3 minutes ago") or into a human-readable size or throughput.
    

### [Code Styling](python_code_styling.md)

* New: [Solve W1514 pylint error.](python_code_styling.md#w1514-set-encoding-on-open)

    ```python
    with open('file.txt', 'r', encoding='utf-8'):
    ```

# Operative Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Set up docker logs rotation.](linux_snippets.md#set-up-docker-logs-rotation)

    By default, the stdout and stderr of the container are written in a JSON file
    located in `/var/lib/docker/containers/[container-id]/[container-id]-json.log`. If
    you leave it unattended, it can take up a large amount of disk space.
    
    If this JSON log file takes up a significant amount of the disk, we can purge it
    using the next command.
    
    ```bash
    truncate -s 0 <logfile>
    ```
    
    We could setup a cronjob to purge these JSON log files regularly. But for the
    long term, it would be better to setup log rotation. This can be done by adding
    the following values in `/etc/docker/daemon.json`.
    
    ```json
    {
      "log-driver": "json-file",
      "log-opts": {
        "max-size": "10m",
        "max-file": "10"
      }
    }
    ```