# Coding

## Languages

### [PDM](pdm.md)

* New: [Supporting pre-releases.](pdm.md#supporting-pre-releases)

    To help package maintainers, you can allow pre-releases to be validate
    candidates, that way you'll get the issues sooner. It will mean more time to
    maintain the broken CIs if you update your packages daily (as you should!), but
    it's the least you can do to help your downstream library maintainers
    
    By default, `pdm`'s dependency resolver will ignore prereleases unless there are
    no stable versions for the given version range of a dependency. This behavior
    can be changed by setting allow_prereleases to true in `[tool.pdm]` table:
    
    ```toml
    [tool.pdm]
    allow_prereleases = true
    ```

* New: [Solve circular dependencies.](pdm.md#solve-circular-dependencies)

    Sometimes `pdm` is not able to [locate the best package combination](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm/issues/1354), or it does too
    many loops, so to help it you can update your version constrains so that it has
    the minimum number of candidates.
    
    To solve circular dependencies we first need to locate what are the conflicting
    packages, [`pdm` doesn't make it easy to detect them](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm/issues/1354). Locate all the outdated
    packages by doing `pdm show` on each package until [this issue is solved](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm/issues/1356) and run `pdm update {package} --unconstrained` for each of them. If you're already on the latest
    version, update your `pyproject.toml` to match the latest state.
    
    Once you have everything to the latest compatible version, you can try to
    upgrade the rest of the packages one by one to the latest with
    `--unconstrained`.
    
    In the process of doing these steps you'll see some conflicts in the
    dependencies that can be manually solved by preventing those versions to be
    installed or maybe changing the `python-requires`.

### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [Fix R1728: Consider using a generator.](python_snippets.md#fix-r1728:-consider-using-a-generator)

    Removing `[]` inside calls that can use containers or generators should be
    considered for performance reasons since a generator will have an upfront cost
    to pay. The performance will be better if you are working with long lists or
    sets.
    
    Problematic code:
    
    ```python
    list([0 for y in list(range(10))])  # [consider-using-generator]
    tuple([0 for y in list(range(10))])  # [consider-using-generator]
    sum([y**2 for y in list(range(10))])  # [consider-using-generator]
    max([y**2 for y in list(range(10))])  # [consider-using-generator]
    min([y**2 for y in list(range(10))])  # [consider-using-generator]
    ```
    
    Correct code:
    
    ```python
    list(0 for y in list(range(10)))
    tuple(0 for y in list(range(10)))
    sum(y**2 for y in list(range(10)))
    max(y**2 for y in list(range(10)))
    min(y**2 for y in list(range(10)))
    ```

* New: [Fix W1510: Using subprocess.run without explicitly set check is not recommended.](python_snippets.md#fix-w1510:-using-subprocess.run-without-explicitly-set-check-is-not-recommended)

    The `run` call in the example will succeed whether the command is successful or
    not. This is a problem because we silently ignore errors.
    
    ```python
    import subprocess
    def example():
        proc = subprocess.run("ls")
        return proc.stdout
    ```
    
    When we pass `check=True`, the behavior changes towards raising an exception
    when the return code of the command is non-zero.

* New: [Convert bytes to string.](python_snippets.md#convert-bytes-to-string)

    ```python
    byte_var.decode('utf-8')
    ```

* New: [Use pipes with subprocess.](python_snippets.md#use-pipes-with-subprocess)

    To use pipes with subprocess you need to use the flag `check=True` which is [a
    bad idea](https://github.com/duo-labs/dlint/blob/master/docs/linters/DUO116.md).
    Instead you should use two processes and link them together in python:
    
    ```python
    ps = subprocess.Popen(('ps', '-A'), stdout=subprocess.PIPE)
    +output = subprocess.check_output(('grep', 'process_name'), stdin=ps.stdout)
    ps.wait()
    ```

* New: [Pass input to the stdin of a subprocess.](python_snippets.md#pass-input-to-the-stdin-of-a-subprocess)

    ```python
    import subprocess
    p = subprocess.run(['myapp'], input='data_to_write', text=True)
    ```

* New: [Copy and paste from clipboard.](python_snippets.md#copy-and-paste-from-clipboard)

    You can use [many libraries](https://www.delftstack.com/howto/python/python-copy-to-clipboard/) to
    do it, but if you don't want to add any other dependencies you can use
    `subprocess run`.
    
    To copy from the `selection` clipboard, assuming you've got `xclip` installed,
    you could do:
    
    ```python
    subprocess.run(
        ['xclip', '-selection', 'clipboard', '-i'],
        input='text to be copied',
        text=True,
        check=True,
    )
    ```
    
    To paste it:
    
    ```python
    subprocess.check_output(
        ['xclip', '-o', '-selection', 'clipboard']
    ).decode('utf-8')
    ```
    
    Good luck testing that in the CI xD

## Generic Coding Practices

### [Use warnings to evolve your code](use_warnings.md)

* New: [Use environmental variables to evolve your packages.](use_warnings.md#use-environmental-variables)

    A cleaner way to handle the package evolve is with environmental variables, that way you don't
    need to change the signature of the function twice. I've learned this from
    [boto](https://github.com/boto/botocore/issues/2705) where they informed their
    users this way:
    
    * If you wish to test the new feature we have created a new environment variable
        `BOTO_DISABLE_COMMONNAME`. Setting this to `true` will suppress the warning and
        use the new functionality.
    * If you are concerned about this change causing disruptions, you can pin your
        version of `botocore` to `<1.28.0` until you are ready to migrate.
    * If you are only concerned about silencing the warning in your logs, use
        `warnings.filterwarnings` when instantiating a new service client.
    
        ```python
        import warnings
        warnings.filterwarnings('ignore', category=FutureWarning, module='botocore.client')
        ```
    

### [Abstract Syntax Trees](abstract_syntax_trees.md)

* New: Introduce abstract syntax trees.

    [Abstract syntax trees](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree)
    (AST) is a tree representation of the abstract syntactic structure of text
    (often source code) written in a formal language. Each node of the tree denotes
    a construct occurring in the text.
    
    The syntax is "abstract" in the sense that it does not represent every detail
    appearing in the real syntax, but rather just the structural or content-related
    details. For instance, grouping parentheses are implicit in the tree structure,
    so these do not have to be represented as separate nodes. Likewise, a syntactic
    construct like an if-condition-then statement may be denoted by means of
    a single node with three branches.
    
    This distinguishes abstract syntax trees from concrete syntax trees,
    traditionally designated parse trees. Parse trees are typically built by
    a parser during the source code translation and compiling process. Once built,
    additional information is added to the AST by means of subsequent processing,
    e.g., contextual analysis.
    
    Abstract syntax trees are also used in program analysis and program transformation systems.
    
    [`pyparsing`](https://github.com/pyparsing/pyparsing/) looks to be a good candidate to [construct an AST](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1721553/how-to-construct-an-abstract-syntax-tree)

# Arts

## Cooking

### [Cooking software](cooking_software.md)

* New: Finish the state of the art analysis.

    Review Cooklang, KookBook, RecipeSage, Mealie and Chowdown