# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [qBittorrent](qbittorrent.md)

* New: Introduce qBittorrent.

    [qBittorrent](https://www.qbittorrent.org/) is [my chosen](torrents.md) client
    for [Bittorrent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent).
    
    Some interesting sections added:
    
    * [Migration from other client](qbittorrent.md#Migration-from-other-client)
    * [Python interaction](qbittorrent.md#Python-interaction)
    * [Monitorization](qbittorrent.md#Monitorization)
    * [Automatic operation](qbittorrent.md#Automatic-operation)

### [Torrents](torrents.md)

* New: Compare the different torrent clients.

    [BitTorrent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent) is a communication
    protocol for peer-to-peer file sharing (P2P), which enables users to distribute
    data and electronic files over the Internet in a decentralized manner.
    
    Each of us seeks something different for a torrent client, thus there is a wide
    set of software, you just need to find the one that's best for you. In my case
    I'm searching for a client that:
    
    - Scales well for many torrents
    
    - Is robust
    
    - Is maintained
    
    - Is popular
    
    - Is supported by the private trackers: Some torrent clients are banned by the
      tracker because they don't report correctly to the tracker when
      canceling/finishing a torrent session. If you use them then a few MB may not
      be counted towards the stats near the end, and torrents may still be listed in
      your profile for some time after you have closed the client. Each tracker has
      their list of allowed clients. Make sure to check them.
    
      Also, clients in alpha or beta versions should be avoided.
    
    - Can be easily monitored
    
    - Has a Python library or an API to interact with
    
    - Has clear and enough logs
    
    - Has RSS support
    
    - Has a pleasant UI
    
    - Supports categories
    
    - Can unpack content once it's downloaded
    
    - No ads
    
    - Easy to use behind a VPN with IP leakage protection.
    
    - Easy to deploy
    
    I don't need other features such as:
    
    - Preview content
    - Search in the torrent client
    
    The winner has been [qBittorrent](qbittorrent.md)