# Life Management

## [Food Management](food_management.md)

* New: Introduce my food management workflow.

    As humans diet is an important factor in our health, we need to eat daily around
    three times a day, as such, each week we need to invest time into managing how
    to get food in front of us. Tasks like thinking what do you want to eat, buying
    the ingredients and cooking them make use a non negligible amount of time. Also
    something to keep in mind, is that eating is one of the great pleasures in our
    lives, so doing it poorly is a waste. The last part of the equation is that to
    eat good you either need time or money.

    This article explores my thoughts and findings on how to optimize the use of
    time, money and mental load in food management while keeping the desired level
    of quality to enjoy each meal, being healthy and following the principles of
    ecology and sustainability. I'm no expert at all on either of these topics. I'm
    learning and making my mind while writing these lines.

## [Grocy Management](grocy_management.md)

* New: Introduce my grocy management workflow.

    Buying stuff is an unpleasant activity that drains your energy and
    time, it's the main perpetrator of the broken capitalist system, but sadly we
    have to yield to survive.

    This article explores my thoughts and findings on how to optimize the use of
    time, money and mental load in grocy management to have enough stuff stored to
    live, while following the principles of ecology and sustainability. I'm no
    expert at all on either of these topics. I'm learning and making my mind while
    writing these lines.

    [grocy](https://grocy.info/) is a web-based self-hosted groceries & household
    management solution for your home.

    My chosen way to deploy grocy has been using
    [Docker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docker_%28software%29). The hard part
    comes when you do the initial load, as you have to add all the:

    * User attributes.
    * Product locations.
    * Product groups.
    * Quantity conversions.
    * Products.

# [Coding](vuejs.md)

* New: [Get assets url.](vue_snippets.md#get-assets-url)

    If you're using Vite, you can save the assets such as images or audios in the
    `src/assets` directory, and you can get the url with:

    ```javascript
    getImage() {
      return new URL(`../assets/pictures/${this.active_id}.jpg`, import.meta.url).href
    },
    ```

    This way it will give you the correct url whether you're in the development
    environment or in production.

* New: [Play audio files.](vue_snippets.md#play-audio-files)

    You can get the file and save it into a `data` element with:

    ```javascript
    getAudio() {
      this.audio = new Audio(new URL(`../assets/audio/${this.active_id}.mp3`, import.meta.url).href)
    },
    ```

    You can start playing with `this.audio.play()`, and stop with
    `this.audio.pause()`.

* New: [Vue Router.](vuejs.md#vue-router)

    Creating a Single-page Application with Vue + Vue Router feels natural, all we
    need to do is map our components to the routes and let Vue Router know where to
    render them.

* New: [Deploy static site on github pages.](vuejs.md#deploy-static-site-on-github-pages)

## [Software Architecture](sql.md)

* New: [List all tables using different databases.](sql.md#list-all-tables)

    Mysql:

    ```sql
    show tables;
    ```

    Postgresql:

    ```sql
    \dt
    ```

    Sqlite:

    ```sql
    .tables
    ```

## Python

### [BeautifulSoup](beautifulsoup.md)

* New: Introduce BeautifulSoup and how to use it.

    [BeautifulSoup](https://beautiful-soup-4.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a Python
    library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files. It works with your favorite
    parser to provide idiomatic ways of navigating, searching, and modifying the
    parse tree.

### [FastAPI](fastapi.md)

* New: [Add endpoints only on testing environment.](fastapi.md#add-endpoints-only-on-testing-environment)

    Sometimes you want to have some API endpoints to populate the database for end
    to end testing the frontend. If your `app` config has the `environment`
    attribute, you could try to do:

    ```python
    app = FastAPI()

    @lru_cache()
    def get_config() -> Config:
        """Configure the program settings."""
        # no cover: the dependency are injected in the tests
        log.info("Loading the config")
        return Config()  # pragma: no cover

    if get_config().environment == "testing":

        @app.get("/seed", status_code=201)
        def seed_data(
            repo: Repository = Depends(get_repo),
            empty: bool = True,
            num_articles: int = 3,
            num_sources: int = 2,
        ) -> None:
            """Add seed data for the end to end tests.

            Args:
                repo: Repository to store the data.
            """
            services.seed(
                repo=repo, empty=empty, num_articles=num_articles, num_sources=num_sources
            )
            repo.close()
    ```

    But the injection of the dependencies is only done inside the functions, so
    `get_config().environment` will always be the default value. I ended up doing
    that check inside the endpoint, which is not ideal.

    ```python

    @app.get("/seed", status_code=201)
    def seed_data(
        config: Config = Depends(get_config),
        repo: Repository = Depends(get_repo),
        empty: bool = True,
        num_articles: int = 3,
        num_sources: int = 2,
    ) -> None:
        """Add seed data for the end to end tests.

        Args:
            repo: Repository to store the data.
        """
        if config.environment != "testing":
            repo.close()
            raise HTTPException(status_code=404)
        ...
    ```

### [Pytest](pytest.md)

* New: [Enforce serial execution of related tests.](pytest.md#enforce-serial-execution-of-related-tests)

    Implement a `serial` fixture with a session-scoped file `lock` fixture using the
    `filelock` package. You can add this to your `conftest.py`:

    ```python
    import contextlib
    import os

    import filelock

    @pytest.fixture(scope='session')
    def lock(tmp_path_factory):
        base_temp = tmp_path_factory.getbasetemp()
        lock_file = base_temp.parent / 'serial.lock'
        yield filelock.FileLock(lock_file=str(lock_file))
        with contextlib.suppress(OSError):
            os.remove(path=lock_file)

    @pytest.fixture()
    def serial(lock):
        with lock.acquire(poll_intervall=0.1):
            yield
    ```

    Then inject the `serial` fixture in any test that requires serial execution. All
    tests that use the serial fixture are executed serially while any tests that do
    not use the fixture are executed in parallel.

* New: [Using fixtures at class level.](pytest.md#using-fixtures-at-class-level)

    Sometimes test functions do not directly need access to a fixture object. For
    example, tests may require to operate with an empty directory as the current
    working directory but otherwise do not care for the concrete directory.

    ```python
    @pytest.mark.usefixtures("cleandir")
    class TestDirectoryInit:
        ...
    ```
    Due to the `usefixtures` marker, the `cleandir` fixture will be required for the
    execution of each test method, just as if you specified a `cleandir` function
    argument to each of them.

    You can specify multiple fixtures like this:

    ```python
    @pytest.mark.usefixtures("cleandir", "anotherfixture")
    ```

* Correction: Improve the snippet to run some tests in serial instead of parallel.

### [Gettext](python_internationalization.md)

* New: Introduce gettext.

    [Gettext](https://docs.python.org/3/library/gettext.html) is the defacto
    universal solution for [internationalization](python_internationalization.md)
    (I18N) and localization (L10N), offering a set of tools that provides
    a framework to help other packages produce multi-lingual messages. It gives an
    opinionated way of how programs should be written to support translated message
    strings and a directory and file naming organisation for the messages that need
    to be translated.

* New: Introduce Python Internationalization.

    To make your code accessible to more people, you may want to support more than
    one language. It's not as easy as it looks as it's not enough to translate it
    but also it must look and feel local. The answer is internationalization.

    Internationalization (numeronymed as i18n) can be defined as the design process
    that ensures a program can be adapted to various languages and regions without
    requiring engineering changes to the source code.

    Common internationalization tasks include:

    * Facilitating compliance with Unicode.
    * Minimizing the use of concatenated strings.
    * Accommodating support for double-byte languages (e.g. Japanese) and
        right-to-left languages (for example, Hebrew).
    * Avoiding hard-coded text.
    * Designing for independence from cultural conventions (e. g., date and time
        displays), limiting language, and character sets.

    Localization (l10n) refers to the adaptation of your program, once
    internationalized, to the local language and cultural habits. In theory it looks
    simple to implement. In practice though, it takes time and effort to provide the
    best Internationalization and Localization experience for your global audience.

    In Python, there is a specific bundled module for that and it’s called
    [gettext](gettext.md), which consists of a public API and a set of tools that
    help extract and generate message catalogs from the source code.


### [Python Snippets](python_snippets.md)

* New: [How to extend a dictionary.](python_snippets.md#how-to-extend-a-dictionary)

    ```python
    a.update(b)
    ```


* New: [How to close a subprocess process.](python_snippets.md#how-to-close-a-subprocess-process)

    ```python
    subprocess.terminate()
    ```

### [Python VLC](python_vlc.md)

* New: Introduce python's vlc library.

    [Python VLC](https://wiki.videolan.org/Python_bindings/) is a library to control
    `vlc` from python.

    There is not usable online documentation, you'll have to go through the
    `help(<component>)` inside the python console.

### [sqlite3](sqlite3.md)

* New: [Get a list of the tables.](sqlite3.md#get-a-list-of-the-tables)

    ```python
    sql_query = """SELECT name FROM sqlite_master
      WHERE type='table';"""
    cursor = sqliteConnection.cursor()
    cursor.execute(sql_query)
    print(cursor.fetchall())
    ```

## [HTML](html.md)

* New: [HTML beautifier.](html.md#html-beautifier)

    If you encounter html code that it's not well indented  you can use [html beautify](https://htmlbeautify.com).


## [JWT](jwt.md)

* New: Introduce JWT.

    [JWT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token) (JSON Web Token) is
    a proposed Internet standard for creating data with optional signature and/or
    optional encryption whose payload holds JSON that asserts some number of claims.
    The tokens are signed either using a private secret or a public/private key.

# DevOps

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [EKS](eks.md)

* New: [Pod limit per node.](eks.md#pod-limit-per-node)

    AWS EKS supports native VPC networking with the Amazon VPC Container Network
    Interface (CNI) plugin for Kubernetes. Using this plugin allows Kubernetes Pods
    to have the same IP address inside the pod as they do on the VPC network.

    This is a great feature but it introduces a limitation in the number of Pods per
    EC2 Node instance. Whenever you deploy a Pod in the EKS worker Node, EKS creates
    a new IP address from VPC subnet and attach to the instance.

    The formula for defining the maximum number of pods per instance is as follows:

    ```
    N * (M-1) + 2
    ```

    Where:

    * `N` is the number of Elastic Network Interfaces (ENI) of the instance type.
    * `M` is the number of IP addresses of a single ENI.

    So, for `t3.small`, this calculation is `3 * (4-1) + 2 = 11`. For a list of all
    the instance types and their limits see [this document](https://github.com/awslabs/amazon-eks-ami/blob/master/files/eni-max-pods.txt)

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Create QR code.](linux_snippets.md#create-qr-code)

    ```bash
    qrencode -o qrcode.png 'Hello World!'
    ```

### [Anki](anki.md)

* New: Introduce Anki.

    [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) is a program which makes remembering things
    easy. Because it's a lot more efficient than traditional study methods, you can
    either greatly decrease your time spent studying, or greatly increase the amount
    you learn.

    Anyone who needs to remember things in their daily life can benefit from Anki.
    Since it is content-agnostic and supports images, audio, videos and scientific
    markup (via LaTeX), the possibilities are endless.

* New: [Interacting with python.](anki.md#interacting-with-python)

    Although there are some python libraries:

    * [genanki](https://github.com/kerrickstaley/genanki)
    * [py-anki](https://pypi.org/project/py-anki/)

    I think the best way is to use [AnkiConnect](https://foosoft.net/projects/anki-connect/)

    The installation process is similar to other Anki plugins and can be accomplished in three steps:

    * Open the *Install Add-on* dialog by selecting *Tools | Add-ons | Get
        Add-ons...* in Anki.
    * Input `2055492159` into the text box labeled *Code* and press the *OK* button to
        proceed.
    * Restart Anki when prompted to do so in order to complete the installation of
        Anki-Connect.

    Anki must be kept running in the background in order for other applications to
    be able to use Anki-Connect. You can verify that Anki-Connect is running at any
    time by accessing `localhost:8765` in your browser. If the server is running, you
    will see the message Anki-Connect displayed in your browser window.

* New: [Use anki connect with python.](anki.md#usage)

### [Libreelec](libreelec.md)

* New: Introduce LibreElec.

    LibreElec is the lightweight distribution to run Kodi

# Arts

## Video Gaming

### [King Arthur Gold](kag.md)

* New: Introduce King Arthur Gold.

    [King Arthur Gold](https://kag2d.com/en/), also known as KAG, is a free Medieval
    Build n'Kill Multiplayer Game with Destructible Environments.

    Construct freeform forts as a medieval Builder, fight in sword duels as a Knight
    or snipe with your bow as an Archer. KAG blends the cooperative aspects of Lost
    Vikings, mashes them with the full destructibility of Worms and the visual style
    and action of Metal Slug, brought to you by the creators of Soldat.

## [Sudokus](sudokus.md)

* New: Introduce the sudoku game.

    [Sudoku](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudoku) is a logic-based,
    combinatorial number-placement puzzle. In classic Sudoku, the objective is to
    fill a 9 × 9 grid with digits so that each column, each row, and each of the
    nine 3 × 3 subgrids that compose the grid (also called "boxes", "blocks", or
    "regions") contain all of the digits from 1 to 9. The puzzle setter provides
    a partially completed grid, which for a well-posed puzzle has a single
    solution.
