# Coding

## Languages

### [asyncio](asyncio.md)

* New: Suggest to use Asyncer.

    [Asyncer](https://asyncer.tiangolo.com/tutorial/) looks very useful

### [Maison](maison.md)

* New: Introduce Maison.

    [Maison](https://github.com/dbatten5/maison) is a Python library to read
    configuration settings from configuration files using
    [`pydantic`](pydantic.md) behind the scenes.
    
    It's useful to parse TOML config files.

### [Typer](typer.md)

* New: Introduce Typer.

    [Typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com/) is a library for building CLI applications
    that users will love using and developers will love creating. Based on Python
    3.6+ type hints.
    
    The key features are:
    
    * *Intuitive to write*: Great editor support. Completion everywhere. Less time
        debugging. Designed to be easy to use and learn. Less time reading docs.
    * *Easy to use*: It's easy to use for the final users. Automatic help, and
        automatic completion for all shells.
    * *Short*: Minimize code duplication. Multiple features from each parameter
        declaration. Fewer bugs.
    * *Start simple*: The simplest example adds only 2 lines of code to your app:
        1 import, 1 function call.
    * *Grow large*: Grow in complexity as much as you want, create arbitrarily
        complex trees of commands and groups of subcommands, with options and
        arguments.
    

## [Frontend Development](frontend_development.md)

* New: [UX design.](frontend_development.md#ux-design)

    The most popular tool out there is `Figma` but it's closed sourced, the
    alternative (quite popular in github) is [`penpot`](https://penpot.app/).

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Get the output of `docker ps` as a json.](linux_snippets.md#get-the-output-of-`docker-ps`-as-a-json)

    To get the complete json for reference.
    
    ```bash
    docker ps -a --format "{{json .}}" | jq -s
    ```
    
    To get only the required columns in the output with tab separated version
    
    ```bash
    docker ps -a --format "{{json .}}" | jq -r -c '[.ID, .State, .Names, .Image]'
    ```
    
    To get [also the image's ID](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54075456/docker-ps-show-image-id-instead-of-name) you can use:
    
    ```bash
    docker inspect --format='{{json .}}' $(docker ps -aq) | jq -r -c '[.Id, .Name, .Config.Image, .Image]'
    ```