# Life Management

## Task Management

### [Task Management Workflows](task_workflows.md)

* Correction: Update the task workflow of the month, and week plannings.

# [Coding](vuejs.md)

* New: Sum up the VueJS tutorial.

## Python

### [Type Hints](type_hints.md)

* Correction: Update TypeVars nomenclature.

    Using `UserT` is [not supported by pylint](https://github.com/PyCQA/pylint/issues/6003), use `UserT` instead.

### [questionary](questionary.md)

* New: [Exit when using control + c.](questionary.md#exit-when-using-control-+-c)

    If you want the question to exit when it receives a `KeyboardInterrupt` event,
    use `unsafe_ask` instead of `ask`.

## [Javascript](javascript.md)

* New: Use ternary conditional operator.

    It's defined by a condition followed by a question mark `?`, then an
    expression to execute if the condition is truthy followed by a colon `:`, and
    finally the expression to execute if the condition is falsy.
    
    `condition ? exprIfTrue : exprIfFalse`
    
    ```javascript
    function getFee(isMember) {
      return (isMember ? '$2.00' : '$10.00');
    }
    
    console.log(getFee(true));
    // expected output: "$2.00"
    
    console.log(getFee(false));
    // expected output: "$10.00"
    
    console.log(getFee(null));
    // expected output: "$10.00"
    ```

* New: [Filter the contents of an array.](javascript.md#filter-the-contents-of-an-array)

    The `filter()` method creates a new array filled with elements that pass a test
    provided by a function.
    
    The `filter()` method does not execute the function for empty elements.
    
    The `filter()` method does not change the original array.
    
    For example:
    
    ```javascript
    const ages = [32, 33, 16, 40];
    const result = ages.filter(checkAdult);
    
    function checkAdult(age) {
      return age >= 18;
    }
    ```

* New: [Interacting with HTML.](javascript.md#interacting-with-html)

# Arts

## [Book Binding](book_binding.md)

* New: Introduce book binding.

    [Book binding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bookbinding) is the process of
    physically assembling a book of codex format from an ordered stack of paper
    sheets that are folded together into sections called signatures or sometimes
    left as a stack of individual sheets. Several signatures are then bound together
    along one edge with a thick needle and sturdy thread.