# Coding

## Languages

### [asyncio](asyncio.md)

* New: [Basic concepts of concurrency.](asyncio.md#concurrency)

    Concurrency is best explained by an example stolen from [Miguel Grinberg](https://youtu.be/iG6fr81xHKA?t=4m29s).
    
    Chess master Judit Polgár hosts a chess exhibition in which she plays multiple amateur players. She has two ways of conducting the exhibition: synchronously and asynchronously.
    
    Assumptions:
    
    - 24 opponents
    - Judit makes each chess move in 5 seconds
    - Opponents each take 55 seconds to make a move
    - Games average 30 pair-moves (60 moves total)
    
    Synchronous version: Judit plays one game at a time, never two at the same time, until the game is complete. Each game takes (55 + 5) * 30 == 1800 seconds, or 30 minutes. The entire exhibition takes 24 * 30 == 720 minutes, or 12 hours.
    
    Asynchronous version: Judit moves from table to table, making one move at each table. She leaves the table and lets the opponent make their next move during the wait time. One move on all 24 games takes Judit 24 * 5 == 120 seconds, or 2 minutes. The entire exhibition is now cut down to 120 * 30 == 3600 seconds, or just 1 hour.
    
    Async IO takes long waiting periods in which functions would otherwise be blocking and allows other functions to run during that downtime. (A function that blocks effectively forbids others from running from the time that it starts until the time that it returns.)

* New: Basic concepts.

    - [AsyncIO is not easy](asyncio.md#asyncIO-is-not-easy)
    - [The async/await Syntax and Native Coroutines](asyncio.md#the-async-await-syntax-and-Native-coroutines)
    - [The Rules of Async IO](asyncio.md#the-rules-of-async-io)
    - [Async IO Design Patterns](asyncio.md#async-io-design-patterns)
      - [Chaining Coroutines](asyncio.md#chaining-coroutines)
      - [Using a Queue](asyncio.md#using-a-queue)
    - [`async for` and list comprehensions](asyncio.md#async-for-and-list-comprehensions)
    - [Creating and gathering tasks](asyncio.md#creating-and-gathering-tasks)
    - [When and Why Is Async IO the Right Choice?](asyncio.md#when-and-why-is-async-io-the-right-choice)
    - [Async IO It Is, but Which One?](asyncio.md#async-io-it-is-but-which-one)
    - [Testing](asyncio.md#testing)

### [aiohttp](aiohttp.md)

* New: Introduce aiohttp.

    [`aiohttp`](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/) is an asynchronous HTTP Client/Server for asyncio and Python. Think of it as the `requests` for asyncio.
    
    - [Installation](aiohttp.md#installation)
    - [How to make a request](aiohttp.md#make-a-request)
    - [Passing parameters in urls](aiohttp.md#passing-parameters-in-urls)
    - [Setting custom headers](aiohttp.md#setting-custom-headers)
    - [Set custom cookies](aiohttp.md#set-custom-cookies)
    - [Proxy support](aiohttp.md#proxy-support)
    - [How to use the `ClientSession`](aiohttp.md#how-to-use-the-clientSession)
    - [An aiohttp adapter](aiohttp.md#an-aiohttp-adapter)

### [Configure Docker to host the application](docker.md)

* New: [Add the contents of a directory to the docker.](docker.md#add-the-contents-of-a-directory-to-the-docker)

    ```
    ADD ./path/to/directory /path/to/destination
    ```
    

# DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code

### [Ansible Snippets](ansible_snippets.md)

* New: [Skip ansible-lint for some tasks.](ansible_snippets.md#skip-ansible-lint-for-some-tasks)

    ```yaml
    - name: Modify permissions
      command: >
        chmod -R g-w /home/user
      tags:
        - skip_ansible_lint
      sudo: yes
    ```

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [AWS Snippets](aws_snippets.md)

* New: [Get EC2 metadata from within the instance.](aws_snippets.md#get-ec2-metadata-from-within-the-instance)

    The quickest way to fetch or retrieve EC2 instance metadata from within a running EC2 instance is to log in and run the command:
    
    Fetch metadata from IPv4:
    
    ```bash
    curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/dynamic/instance-identity/document
    ```
    
    You can also download the `ec2-metadata` tool to get the info:
    
    ```bash
    wget http://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2metadata/ec2-metadata
    
    chmod +x ec2-metadata
    
    ./ec2-metadata --all
    ```

## Monitoring

### [AlertManager](alertmanager.md)

* New: [Alertmanager routes.](alertmanager.md#route)

    A route block defines a node in a routing tree and its children. Its optional
    configuration parameters are inherited from its parent node if not set.
    
    Every alert enters the routing tree at the configured top-level route, which
    must match all alerts (i.e. not have any configured matchers). It then traverses
    the child nodes. If continue is set to false, it stops after the first matching
    child. If continue is true on a matching node, the alert will continue matching
    against subsequent siblings. If an alert does not match any children of a node
    (no matching child nodes, or none exist), the alert is handled based on the
    configuration parameters of the current node.
    
    A basic configuration would be:
    
    ```yaml
    route:
      group_by: [job, alertname, severity]
      group_wait: 30s
      group_interval: 5m
      repeat_interval: 12h
      receiver: 'email'
      routes:
        - match:
            alertname: Watchdog
          receiver: 'null'
    ```