# Coding

## Languages

### [PDM](pdm.md)

* New: [Custom file generation.](pdm.md#custom-file-generation)

    During the build, you may want to generate other files or download resources from the internet. You can achieve this by the setup-script build configuration:
    
    ```toml`
    [tool.pdm.build]
    setup-script = "build.py"
    ```
    
    In the `build.py` script, pdm-pep517 looks for a build function and calls it with two arguments:
    
    * `src`: the path to the source directory
    * `dst`: the path to the distribution directory
    
    Example:
    
    ```python
    def build(src, dst):
        target_file = os.path.join(dst, "mypackage/myfile.txt")
        os.makedirs(os.path.dirname(target_file), exist_ok=True)
        download_file_to(dst)
    ```
    
    The generated file will be copied to the resulted wheel with the same hierarchy, you need to create the parent directories if necessary.

### [rich](rich.md)

* New: [Tree console view.](rich.md#tree)

    Rich has a [`Tree`](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/tree.html#rich.tree.Tree) class which can generate a tree view in the terminal. A tree view is a great way of presenting the contents of a filesystem or any other hierarchical data. Each branch of the tree can have a label which may be text or any other Rich renderable.
    
    The following code creates and prints a tree with a simple text label:
    
    ```python
    from rich.tree import Tree
    from rich import print
    
    tree = Tree("Rich Tree")
    print(tree)
    ```
    
    With only a single `Tree` instance this will output nothing more than the text “Rich Tree”. Things get more interesting when we call `add()` to add more branches to the `Tree`. The following code adds two more branches:
    
    ```python
    tree.add("foo")
    tree.add("bar")
    print(tree)
    ```
    
    The `tree` will now have two branches connected to the original tree with guide lines.
    
    When you call `add()` a new `Tree` instance is returned. You can use this instance to add more branches to, and build up a more complex tree. Let’s add a few more levels to the tree:
    
    ```python
    baz_tree = tree.add("baz")
    baz_tree.add("[red]Red").add("[green]Green").add("[blue]Blue")
    print(tree)
    ```
    

# DevOps

## Automating Processes

### [cruft](cruft.md)

* Correction: Suggest to use copier instead.

    [copier](https://github.com/copier-org/copier) looks a more maintained solution nowadays.

## Authentication

### [Authentik](authentik.md)

* Correction: [Configure the invitation flow with terraform.](authentik.md#configure-the-invitation-flow)
* New: [Hide and application from a user.](authentik.md#hide-and-application-from-a-user)

    Application access can be configured using (Policy) Bindings. Click on an application in the applications list, and select the Policy / Group / User Bindings tab. There you can bind users/groups/policies to grant them access. When nothing is bound, everyone has access. You can use this to grant access to one or multiple users/groups, or dynamically give access using policies.
    
    With terraform you can use `authentik_policy_binding`, for example:
    
    ```terraform
    resource "authentik_policy_binding" "admin" {
      target = authentik_application.gitea.uuid
      group  = authentik_group.admins.id
      order  = 0
    }
    ```

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Measure the performance, IOPS of a disk.](linux_snippets.md#measure-the-performance-iops-of-a-disk)

    To measure disk IOPS performance in Linux, you can use the `fio` tool. Install it with
    
    ```bash
    apt-get install fio
    ```
    
    Then you need to go to the directory where your disk is mounted. The test is done by performing read/write operations in this directory.
    
    To do a random read/write operation test an 8 GB file will be created. Then `fio` will read/write a 4KB block (a standard block size) with the 75/25% by the number of reads and writes operations and measure the performance.
    
    ```bash
    fio --randrepeat=1 --ioengine=libaio --direct=1 --gtod_reduce=1 --name=fiotest --filename=testfio --bs=4k --iodepth=64 --size=8G --readwrite=randrw --rwmixread=75
    ```