# Activism

## Hacktivism

### [Mobile Verification Toolkit](mobile_verification_toolkit.md)

* New: [Other tools for similar purpose.](mobile_verification_toolkit.md#other-tools-for-similar-purpose)

    - [Rayhunter](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2025/03/meet-rayhunter-new-open-source-tool-eff-detect-cellular-spying)

## [Detección de estupas](estupas.md)

* New: Malditos estupas.

    Los estupas (o infiltrados) son de los peores cuerpos de represión del estado. No sólo porque extraen información de los colectivos sino porque generan un ambiente de desconfianza y miedo que muchas veces es paralizante o incluso desarticula los propios colectivos. De la peor escoria de la sociedad...
    
    Por desgracia, en el estado español [está bastante de moda](https://www.elsaltodiario.com/montajes-policiales). Por suerte no estamos desamparadas, varias compañeras están generando materiales para familiarizarnos con este problema. Desde el documental [Infiltrats](https://www.3cat.cat/3cat/infiltrats/video/6319194/) hasta el [Manual para destapar a un infiltrado](https://doscuadrados.es/colaboraciones.html) (puedes ver [el artículo del salto sobre el manual](https://www.elsaltodiario.com/represion/manual-infiltrado-policial-espionaje-policia-directa)).
    
    Probablemente estos desgraciados adaptarán sus modos de hacer para pasar estas detecciones, pero al menos los movimientos sociales ya tenemos una base formal sobre la que trabajar.
    
    **Referencias**
    
    - [Manual para destapar a un infiltrado](https://doscuadrados.es/colaboraciones.html)

## Conference organisation

### [pretalx](pretalx.md)

* New: [Add references for pretalx.](pretalx.md#references)

    - [Home](https://pretalx.com/p/about/)
    - [Source](https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx)

# Life navigation

## Time navigation

### [Identities](identities.md)

* New: Introduce the time navigation abstract identity concept.

    An [identity](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_%28social_science%29) is the set of qualities, beliefs, personality traits, appearance, and/or expressions that characterize a person or a group.
    
    Identity serves multiple functions, acting as a "self-regulatory structure" that provides meaning, direction, and a sense of self-control. It fosters internal harmony and serves as a behavioral compass, enabling individuals to orient themselves towards the future and establish long-term goals. As an active process, it profoundly influences an individual's capacity to adapt to life events and achieve a state of well-being. However, identity originates from traits or attributes that you may have little or no control over, such as their family background or ethnicity.
    
    Identities then will be the guide of my life. I've tried setting essential goals, answering big questions with no success so far. This approach however looks more interesting because:
    
    - I can split myself in many identities each with it's definition and analyse life through the different lenses, identify identity conflicts, priorize identities...
    - I can analyse each identity on it's own, decide how to change my roadmap to integrate the ones I want to adopt and get away from the ones I want to leave behind.
    - It reminds me of the RPG character building and although it may seem silly, that motivates me.
    - It fits quite well with what I've learnt regarding [habit management](habit_management.md)
    
    **The identities archive**
    
    I'm using a new notebook page called `identities.org` where I plan to analyze, build and evolve my identities.
    
    **An identity section**
    
    Each identity may have the next sections. A simple heading with the name of the identity is just fine. You'll create the sections as long as you need them.
    
    **Analysis of the identity**
    
    Here we can develop our thoughts on what does the identity mean and what do you see yourself embodying the identity
    
    **Identity characteristics**
    
    List the values, habits, abilities, knowledge, capabilities and experiences that define the identity, and analyse each of them.
    
    **Identity plan**
    
    Here is where we can sketch the plan we want to follow to grow or shrink this identity. It contains a list of [identity axis](axis.md).
    
    **Children identities**
    
    Sometimes an identity can be refined in smaller more specific identities, here we'll add sections for each of them.
    
    **Identity analysis**
    
    **Dump your thoughts on your identities**
    
    Before we get tainted with our past analysis imagine a fresh canvas and start painting yourself.
    
    You can add a section in `think.org` to record your findings. I found that I needed some time to do this dump, working on the section through days before the actual analysis.
    
    **Do an initial list of values**
    
    I first created a `global values or principles` headline and listed all core principles such as:
    
    - All creatures are beautiful
    - Be excellent to each other
    - Better done than perfect
    
    You may refactor them into the identities once you start building them.
    
    **Do an initial list of identities**
    
    Empty your mind of the different identities that define you or that you want to be defined by. Create headlines for each using the sections defined above as you need them.
    
    **Do an initial list of axis**
    
    Dream of what [axis](axis.md) you'll want to address. If you can order them into identities.
    
    **Do the identity analysis**
    
    **Refactor the gathered thoughts into the `identities.org` file**
    
    **Select the identities you want to prioritise in the year**
    
    - Skim over all identities and for the ones you want to focus in the year:
      - add the `identity` tag
      - assign a priority
      - do not add a TODO keyword, we'll reserve them for the identity axis.
    - Use the year custom agenda `identities` section to adjust the priority of the different identities following the next guides:
      - Spread the identities over the different priorities so that each has more less the same number of elements.
      - Compare an identity with the ones that are above or below and decide if you promote or demote it
      - If you don't want one identity to bien the list add the `backlog` tag if you don't want that identity and it's subidentities to appear. Add the `hide` tag in case you want any of the subidentities
    
    **Refine the identities**
    
    Following the priority order of identities go one by one until you run out of time and:
    
    - Read the identity analysis and the different [axis](axis.md).
    - Order the different axis by the impact they can have in the identity
    - [Refine the projects of each axis](axis.md)

### [Axis](axis.md)

* New: Introduce the axis time navigation concept.

    An identity axis is an abstract guide for action with an indefinite scope or a timeframe longer than one year. It serves as a high-level directional tool to materialise changes in your [identities](identities.md), helping to outline a general course without specifying exact destinations.
    
    **Limitations of an axis**
    
    - It is not suitable as a final destination on a roadmap because it is too ambiguous.
    - Even minor progress could be considered sufficient, leading to a lack of clear endpoints.
    - One could continue indefinitely without a sense of completion, such as continuously striving for improvement.
    
    **Axis orgmode representation**
    
    An axis is a headline or TODO headline (depending whether it's active or not) that is part of the `plan` section of an [identity](identities.md).
    
    It can have none or many of the next sections:
    
    **Axis analysis section**
    
    To gather the thoughts regarding the study of the axis
    
    **Axis plan section**
    
    To gather the axis projects that will materialise the direction of the axis.
    
    **Axis projects**
    
    To prevent endless pursuit, an axis should be broken down into projects with defined scopes that indicate when to stop advancing in that direction.
    
    Axis projects shall:
    
    - Have a scope shorter than 11 months so they can be managed in the life stage review.
    
    Depending on whether the axis projects will be acted upon in the current quarter they will have two possible representations:
    
    - If you don't plan to it will be a project section with the análisis, and steps
    - If you do, then it will be a link to the project section either in `projects.org` or in `backlog.org`. You can leave the analysis section below the link in `identities.org` that way it won't use precious space in your `projects.org` file.

### [Roadmap Adjustment](roadmap_adjustment.md)

* New: [Life stage roadmap adjustment adjustments.](roadmap_adjustment.md#life-stage-roadmap-adjustment)

    **Review what you've done the last year**
    
    Read your `logbook.org` (o `bitácora.org`) adjusting the priorities of the áreas, projects and actions thinking of the impact the element has meant in your live.
    
    **Review what you've learn the last year**
    
    It's always interesting to look back and see what you've learned throughout the
    year. I have these sources of data:
    
    **[Digital garden](#digital-garden)**
    
    If you happen to have a [digital garden](digital_garden.md) you can look at your
    git history to know what has changed since the last year. That's cumbersome and
    ugly though, it's better to review
    [your newsletters](https://lyz-code.github.io/blue-book/newsletter/0_newsletter_index/),
    although you may need to use something like
    [`mkdocs-newsletter`](https://lyz-code.github.io/mkdocs-newsletter/).
    
    While you skim through the newsletters you can add to the analysis report the
    highlights of what you've learned.
    
    You can also check
    [your repository insights](git.md#get-interesting-stats-of-the-repo).
    
    **[Anki](#anki)**
    
    I use [`anki`](anki.md) to record the knowledge that I need to have in my mind.
    The program has a "Stats" tab where you can see your insights of the last years
    to understand how are you learning. You can also go to the "Browse" tab to sort
    the cards by created and get an idea of which ones have been the most used
    decks.
    
    **Review what programs you have developed**
    
    **Update your identities**
    
    Follow the steps of [identity management](identities.md#identity-management).

## Content Management

### [Book DRM](book_drm.md)

* New: How to remove DRM from ebooks.

    To remove the DRM from ebooks you can use [DeDRM_tools](https://github.com/noDRM/DeDRM_tools).
    
    **Installation**
    
    You need to download [the latest release](https://github.com/noDRM/DeDRM_tools/releases), and follow the instructions of the README.md of the zip file.o
    
    **Usage**
    
    Once the plugin is installed, you can import the books you want to remove the DRM from. In theory the plugin only works on import and not on convert, but I've also used the convert tool to make sure it's a different file.

# Health

## [Silence](silence.md)

* New: [Introduce the Right to quiet collective.](silence.md#resources)

    - [Right to quiet](https://quiet.org/): The Right to Quiet Society for Soundscape Awareness and Protection was founded in Vancouver, British Columbia in 1982 as a charitable organization with the mission of raising public awareness of the detrimental effects of noise on health; promoting awareness of noise pollution and the dangers of noise to our physical, emotional, and spiritual wellbeing; working for noise reduction through better regulation and enforcement; encouraging responsible behaviour regarding noise; advocating for manufacturing quieter products; and fostering recognition of the right to quiet as a basic human right, rather than as an amenity for the affluent.
    - [Right to quiet resources](https://quiet.org/resources/)

# Coding

## Coding tools

### [Vim Snippets](vim_snippets.md)

* New: [Search for different strings in the same search query.](vim_snippets.md#search-for-different-strings-in-the-same-search-query)

    ```
    * DONE\|* REJECTED\|* DUPLICATED
    ```

### [Gitea](gitea.md)

* New: [Configure gitea.](gitea.md#configuration)

    Check the [configuration sheet](https://docs.gitea.com/administration/config-cheat-sheet)  or the [default values](https://github.com/go-gitea/gitea/blob/release/v1.23/custom/conf/app.example.ini)

* New: [Upgrade the gitea actions runner.](gitea.md#upgrade-the-gitea-actions-runner)

    - Check in [the releases](https://gitea.com/gitea/act_runner/releases) the last version and the changelog
    - Deploy the new version
    - Restart the service

* New: [Upgrade gitea.](gitea.md#upgrade)

    **Check the Changelog for breaking changes**
    
    To make Gitea better, some breaking changes are unavoidable, especially for big milestone releases. Before upgrading, please read the [Changelog on Gitea blog](https://blog.gitea.com/) and check whether the breaking changes affect your Gitea instance.
    
    **Verify there are no deprecated configuration options**
    
    New versions of Gitea often come with changed configuration syntax or options which are usually displayed for at least one release cycle inside at the top of the Site Administration panel. If these warnings are not resolved, Gitea may refuse to start in the following version.
    
    **Make a backup**
    
    **[Upgrade from docker](https://docs.gitea.com/installation/upgrade-from-gitea#upgrade-with-docker)**
    
    - docker pull the latest Gitea release.
    - Stop the running instance, backup data.
    - Use docker or docker-compose to start the newer Gitea Docker container.
    
    **[Upgrade from binary](https://docs.gitea.com/installation/upgrade-from-gitea#upgrade-from-binary)**
    
    A script automating the following steps for a deployment on Linux can be found at [contrib/upgrade.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/go-gitea/gitea/refs/heads/release/v1.23/contrib/upgrade.sh) in Gitea's source tree.
    
    - Download the latest Gitea binary to a temporary directory.
    - Stop the running instance, backup data.
    - Replace the installed Gitea binary with the downloaded one.
    - Start the Gitea instance.
    
    Read the script to see what it's going to do. To upgrade to `1.20.5` you can use:
    
    ```bash
    ./update.sh -v 1.20.5
    ```
    
    If you have a different home directory for gitea you can set
    
    ```bash
    giteahome=/var/gitea ./update.sh -v 1.20.5
    ```

# DevSecOps

## Infrastructure Solutions

### [Kubernetes](kubernetes.md)

* New: [Optimizing Kubernetes Cluster Node Count: A Strategic Approach.](kubernetes.md#optimizing-kubernetes-cluster-node-count:-a-strategic-approach)

    Reducing the number of nodes in a Kubernetes cluster is a critical strategy for controlling cloud infrastructure costs without compromising system reliability. Here are key best practices to help organizations right-size their Kubernetes deployments:
    
    **1. Availability Zone Consolidation**
    
    Carefully evaluate the number of availability zones (AZs) used in your cluster. While multi-AZ deployments provide redundancy, using too many zones can:
    - Increase infrastructure complexity
    - Raise management overhead
    - Unnecessarily distribute resources
    - Increase cost without proportional benefit
    
    **Recommendation**: Aim for a balanced approach, typically 3 AZs, which provides robust redundancy while allowing more efficient resource consolidation.
    
    **2. Intelligent Node Sizing and Management**
    
    Implement sophisticated node management strategies:
    
    **Node Provisioning Optimization**
    - Use tools like Karpenter to dynamically manage node sizing
    - Continuously analyze and adjust node types based on actual workload requirements
    - Consolidate smaller nodes into fewer, more efficiently sized instances
    
    **Overhead Calculation**
    Regularly assess system and Kubernetes overhead:
    - Calculate total system resource consumption
    - Identify underutilized resources
    - Understand the overhead percentage for different node types
    - Make data-driven decisions about node scaling
    
    **3. Advanced Pod Autoscaling Techniques**
    
    **Horizontal Pod Autoscaling (HPA)**
    - Implement HPA for workloads with variable load
    - Automatically adjust pod count based on CPU/memory utilization
    - Ensure efficient resource distribution across existing nodes
    
    **Vertical Pod Autoscaling (VPA)**
    - Use VPA in recommendation mode initially
    - Carefully evaluate automated resource adjustments
    - Manually apply recommendations to prevent potential service disruptions
    
    **4. Workload Optimization Strategies**
    
    **High Availability Considerations**
    - Ensure critical workloads have robust high availability configurations
    - Design applications to tolerate node failures gracefully
    - Implement pod disruption budgets to maintain service reliability
    
    **Resource Right-Sizing**
    - Conduct thorough analysis of actual resource utilization
    - Avoid over-provisioning by matching resource requests to actual usage
    - Use monitoring tools to gain insights into workload characteristics
    
    **5. Continuous Monitoring and Refinement**
    
    - Implement comprehensive monitoring of cluster performance
    - Regularly review node utilization metrics
    - Create feedback loops for continuous optimization
    - Develop scripts or use tools to collect and analyze resource usage data

## Continuous Deployment

### [ArgoCD](argocd.md)

* New: [ArgoCD commandline installation.](argocd.md#argocd-commandline-installation)

    ```bash
    curl -sSL -o argocd-linux-amd64 https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/latest/download/argocd-linux-amd64
    install -m 555 argocd-linux-amd64 ~/.local/bin/argocd
    rm argocd-linux-amd64
    ```

* New: [ArgoCD commandline usage.](argocd.md#argocd-commandline-usage)

    **[Login into the server](https://codefresh.io/learn/argo-cd/argo-cd-cli-commands-and-best-practices/)**
    
    The `argocd login` command is the first step in interacting with the Argo CD API. This command allows you to authenticate yourself, setting up a secure connection between your terminal and the Argo CD server. Youll need to provide your servers URL and your credentials. There are three different ways to login, I found that the `--core` is the most useful as it will use your kubernetes credentials.
    
    ```bash
    argocd login your.argocd.url.com --core --name production
    ```
    
    Be careful thought that you can't set different `argocd context` for different clusters using the `--core` even though [you set the `--kube-context` flag](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/issues/12883). The config file `~/.config/argocd/config` shows that it's using whatever kubernetes context you're using. So be careful that you're applying it in the correct one!
    
    **Set an argocd context**
    
    The `argocd context` command is used to manage your Argo CD contexts. A context is a configuration that represents a Kubernetes cluster, user, and namespace. You can use this command to switch Argo CD between different contexts, allowing you to manage multiple Kubernetes namespaces and clusters from a single terminal.
    
    You can see the different contexts with `argocd context`
    
    **Get the list of applications**
    
    ```bash
    argocd app list
    ```
    
    **Refresh an application**
    
    ```bash
    argocd app get app_name --refresh
    ```
    
    **Show the diff of an application**
    
    ```bash
    argocd app diff app_name
    ```
    
    **Sync an application**
    
    ```bash
    argocd app sync app_name
    ```

* New: [More not there yet features.](argocd.md#not-there-yet)

    - Python library: I have found none
    - Argocd TUI: I have found none that is updated

## Automating Processes

### [renovate](renovate.md)

* New: [Configure renovate.](renovate.md#configuration)

    **[automerge](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/#automerge)**
    
    By default, Renovate raises PRs but leaves them to someone or something else to merge them. By configuring this setting, you allow Renovate to automerge PRs or even branches. Using automerge reduces the amount of human intervention required.
    
    Usually you won't want to automerge all PRs, for example most people would want to leave major dependency updates to a human to review first. You could configure Renovate to automerge all but major this way:
    
    ```json
    {
      "packageRules": [
        {
          "matchUpdateTypes": ["minor", "patch", "pin", "digest"],
          "automerge": true
        }
      ]
    }
    ```
    
    Also note that this option can be combined with other nested settings, such as dependency type. So for example you could choose to automerge all (passing) devDependencies only this way:
    
    ```json
    {
      "packageRules": [
        {
          "matchDepTypes": ["devDependencies"],
          "automerge": true
        }
      ]
    }
    ```
    
    **Configure docker version extraction**
    
    - [Ansible Manager Docker-type dependency extraction · renovatebot/renovate · Discussion #18190 · GitHub](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions/18190)
    - [Automated Dependency Updates for Ansible - Renovate Docs](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/manager/ansible/)
    - [Pin packages in ansible roles · Issue #3720 · renovatebot/renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/3720)
    - [Support default environment variable values in docker-compose · Issue #4635 · renovatebot/renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/4635)
    - [Support docker-compose.yml versions from .env files · Issue #31685 · renovatebot/renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/31685)
    
    **Combine all updates to one branch/PR**
    
    - [Group Presets - Renovate Docs group all non major](https://docs.renovatebot.com/presets-group/#groupallnonmajor)
    - [Group Presets - Renovate Docs group all](https://docs.renovatebot.com/presets-group/#groupall)
    - [config - Renovate: Combine all updates to one branch/PR - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66471226/renovate-combine-all-updates-to-one-branch-pr)
    -

* New: [Add upgrade notes.](renovate.md#references)

    - [Upgrade notes](https://docs.renovatebot.com/release-notes-for-major-versions/)

## Storage

### [OpenZFS storage planning](zfs_storage_planning.md)

* New: Add link tot he backblaze disk reports.

    If you have some time take a look at [backblaze disk reports](https://www.backblaze.com/cloud-storage/resources/hard-drive-test-data) they do quarterly analysis on their infra (around 300k disks).
    
    @@ -26,6 +26,7 @@ nav:
           - Feminism:
               - Privileges: feminism/privileges.md
           - Palestine: palestine.md
    +      - Detección de estupas: estupas.md
           - Anarchism: anarchism.md
           - Memoria histórica: memoria_historica.md
           - Anti-Tourism: antitourism.md
    @@ -33,19 +34,22 @@ nav:
           - Free Knowledge: free_knowledge.md
           - Free Software: free_software.md
           - Environmentalism: environmentalism.md
    -      - Laboral:
    -        - laboral.md
    -        - Trabajadoras del hogar: trabajadoras_del_hogar.md
    +      - Laboral:
    +          - laboral.md
    +          - Trabajadoras del hogar: trabajadoras_del_hogar.md
           - Collaborating tools: collaborating_tools.md
           - Conference organisation:
               - conference_organisation.md
               - pretalx: pretalx.md
    -      - Ludditest: luddites.md
    -  - Life Management:
    +      - Luddites: luddites.md
    +  - Life navigation:
           - life_management.md
    -      - Time management:
    +      - Time navigation:
               - time_management.md
    -          - Time management abstraction levels: time_management_abstraction_levels.md
    +          - Time navigation abstraction levels:
    +              - time_management_abstraction_levels.md
    +              - Identities: identities.md
    +              - Axis: axis.md
               - Action Management: action_management.md
               - Roadmap Adjustment:
                   - roadmap_adjustment.md
    @@ -134,6 +138,7 @@ nav:
               - Book Management:
                   - book_management.md
                   - Bookwyrm: bookwyrm.md
    +              - Book DRM: book_drm.md
               - Movies Management:
                   - Jellyfin: jellyfin.md
                   - Ombi: ombi.md
    @@ -196,6 +201,7 @@ nav:
           - Teeth:
               - teeth.md
               - Deep cleaning: teeth_deep_cleaning.md
    +      - Silence: silence.md
           - Remote Working: remote_work.md
           - Fitness Tracker:
               - fitness_band.md
    @@ -649,6 +655,8 @@ nav:
                   - fail2ban: linux/fail2ban.md
                   - pass: pass.md
                   - Wireshark: wireshark.md
    +              - Canary tokens: canary_tokens.md
    +
               - Sysadmin tools:
                   - brew: linux/brew.md
                   - detox: detox.md
    @@ -753,6 +761,7 @@ nav:
               - Speech to text:
                   - Whisper: whisper.md
                   - Speech recognition: speech_recognition.md
    +          - Text to speech: text_to_speech.md
               - Coding by Voice: coding_by_voice.md
           - Data Analysis:
               - data_analysis.md
    

### [OpenZFS](zfs.md)

* Correction: [Replacing a disk in the pool.](zfs.md#replacing-a-disk-in-the-pool)

    **If the pool is not DEGRADED**
    
    If you want to do operations on your pool and want to prevent it from being DEGRADED you need to attach a new disk to the server and use the replace command
    
    ```bash
    zfs replace tank0 ata-WDC_WD2003FZEX-00SRLA0_WD-xxxxxxxxxxxx /dev/sdX
    ```
    Where `/dev/sdX` is your temporal disk. Once the original disk is removed from the vdev you can do the operations you need.

* New: [Removing a disk from the pool.](zfs.md#removing-a-disk-from-the-pool)

    ```bash
    zpool remove tank0 sda
    ```
    
    This will trigger the data evacuation from the disk. Check `zpool status` to see when it finishes.
    
    Sometimes zfs won't allow you to remove a disk if it will put at risk the pool. In that case try to replace a disk in the pool as explained above.

# Operating Systems

## Linux

### [Linux Snippets](linux_snippets.md)

* New: [Download videos from rtve.es.](linux_snippets.md#download-videos-from-rtve.es)

    Use [descargavideos.tv](https://www.descargavideos.tv/) ([source](https://github.com/forestrf/Descargavideos))

* New: [Check if a domain is in a list of known disposable email domains.](linux_snippets.md#check-if-a-domain-is-in-a-list-of-known-disposable-email-domains)

    You can check in known lists
    ```bash
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/andreis/disposable-email-domains/master/domains.txt
    grep -i homapin.com domains.txt
    ```
    
    Or using web services that either use the IPs (obtained by whois/dig)
    
    ```
    https://www.blocklist.de/en/search.html?ip=142.132.166.12&action=search&send=start+search 
    https://www.blocklist.de/en/search.html?ip=188.166.111.252&action=search&send=start+search 
    https://www.blocklist.de/en/search.html?ip=46.101.111.206&action=search&send=start+search 
    https://www.blocklist.de/en/search.html?ip=116.202.9.167&action=search&send=start+search 
    https://check.spamhaus.org/results/?query=homapin.com 
    https://verifymail.io/domain/homapin.com 
    https://www.ipqualityscore.com/domain-reputation/homapin.com 
    https://quickemailverification.com/tools/disposable-email-address-detector for
      - homapin.com 
    ```

* New: [Mount a cdrom or dvd.](linux_snippets.md#mount-a-cdrom-or-dvd)

    TL;DR: The syntax is as follows for the mount command:
    
    ```bash
    mount -t iso9660 -o ro /dev/deviceName /path/to/mount/point
    ```
    
    Use the following command to find out the name Of DVD / CD-ROM / Writer / Blu-ray device on a Linux based system:
    
    ```bash
    lsblk
    ```
    
    OR use the combination of the dmesg command and grep/egrep as follow to print your CD/DVD device name. For example:
    
    ```bash
    dmesg | grep -E -i --color 'cdrom|dvd|cd/rw|writer'
    ```
    
    Sample outputs indicating that the /dev/sr0 is my device name:
    
    ```
    [    5.437164] sr0: scsi3-mmc drive: 24x/24x writer dvd-ram cd/rw xa/form2 cdda tray
    [    5.437307] cdrom: Uniform CD-ROM driver Revision: 3.20
    ```
    
    Create a mount point, type mkdir command as follows:
    
    ```bash
    mkdir -p /mnt/cdrom
    ```
    
    Mount the /dev/cdrom or /dev/sr0 as follows:
    
    ```bash
    mount -t iso9660 -o ro /dev/cdrom /mnt/cdrom
    ```

### [Canary tokens](canary_tokens.md)

* New: Introduce Canary tokens.

    [Canary tokens](https://www.canarytokens.org/nest/) are like motion sensors for your networks, computers and clouds. You can put them in folders, on network devices and on your phones.
    
    Place them where nobody should be poking around and get a clear alarm if they are accessed. They are designed to look juicy to attackers to increase the likelihood that they are opened (and they are completely free).
    
    Our Canarytokens are easy to sprinkle all over and forget about, until you get the notification that matters. They are super lightweight and dont require installing software or running more background processes that can slow down your PC.
    
    **References**
    
    - [Docs](https://docs.canarytokens.org/guide/)
    - [Home](https://www.canarytokens.org/nest/)
    feat(kubernetes#Move a pvc between AZ in aws): Move a pvc between AZ in aws
    
    ```bash
    
    set -e
    
    if [ -z "$1" ] || [ -z "$2" ]; then
      echo "Usage: $0 <pv-name> <new-az>"
      exit 1
    fi
    
    PV_NAME=$1
    NEW_AZ=$2
    
     Get Volume ID from PV
    VOLUME_ID=$(kubectl get pv $PV_NAME -o jsonpath='{.spec.csi.volumeHandle}')
    if [ -z "$VOLUME_ID" ]; then
      echo "Failed to get volume ID for PV $PV_NAME"
      exit 1
    fi
    
    PVC_NAME=$(kubectl get pv $PV_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.claimRef.name}")
    NAMESPACE=$(kubectl get pv  $PV_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.claimRef.namespace}")
    
    echo "PVC Name: $PVC_NAME"
    echo "Namespace: $NAMESPACE"
    
    echo "Found volume: $VOLUME_ID"
    
    SNAPSHOT_ID=$(aws ec2 create-snapshot --volume-id $VOLUME_ID --description "Migration for $PV_NAME" --query 'SnapshotId' --output text)
    echo "Snapshot created: $SNAPSHOT_ID"
    
    echo "Waiting for snapshot to be ready..."
    aws ec2 wait snapshot-completed --snapshot-ids $SNAPSHOT_ID
    echo "Snapshot $SNAPSHOT_ID is ready"
    
    VOLUME_TYPE=$(aws ec2 describe-volumes --volume-ids $VOLUME_ID --query 'Volumes[0].VolumeType' --output text)
    NEW_VOLUME_ID=$(aws ec2 create-volume --snapshot-id $SNAPSHOT_ID --availability-zone $NEW_AZ --volume-type $VOLUME_TYPE --query 'VolumeId' --output text)
    echo "New volume created: $NEW_VOLUME_ID"
    
    echo "Waiting for new volume to be available..."
    aws ec2 wait volume-available --volume-ids $NEW_VOLUME_ID
    echo "New volume $NEW_VOLUME_ID is ready"
    
    NEW_PV_NAME=${PV_NAME}-migrated
    cat <<EOF > new-pv.yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolume
    metadata:
      name: $NEW_PV_NAME
    spec:
      capacity:
        storage: $(kubectl get pv $PV_NAME -o jsonpath='{.spec.capacity.storage}')
      volumeMode: Filesystem
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
      storageClassName: $(kubectl get pv $PV_NAME -o jsonpath='{.spec.storageClassName}')
      csi:
        driver: ebs.csi.aws.com
        volumeHandle: $NEW_VOLUME_ID
        fsType: ext4
      nodeAffinity:
        required:
          nodeSelectorTerms:
          - matchExpressions:
            - key: topology.ebs.csi.aws.com/zone
              operator: In
              values:
              - $NEW_AZ
    EOF
    
    echo "New PV manifest generated: new-pv.yaml"
    
    kubectl apply -f new-pv.yaml
    echo "New PV $NEW_PV_NAME created"
    kubectl get pvc $PVC_NAME -n $NAMESPACE -o yaml > ${PVC_NAME}-backup.yaml
    
    echo "If you haven't size to 0 the statefulset, it is the time to kill the pod to rebind the PVC"
    
    kubectl delete pvc $PVC_NAME -n $NAMESPACE
    echo "Old PVC deleted"
    cat <<EOF > new-pvc.yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    metadata:
      name: $PVC_NAME
      namespace: $NAMESPACE
    spec:
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: $(kubectl get pv $NEW_PV_NAME -o jsonpath='{.spec.capacity.storage}')
      storageClassName: $(kubectl get pv $NEW_PV_NAME -o jsonpath='{.spec.storageClassName}')
      volumeName: $NEW_PV_NAME
    EOF
    
    echo "New PVC manifest generated: new-pvc.yaml"
    
    kubectl apply -f new-pvc.yaml
    echo "New PVC $PVC_NAME created and bound to new PV"
    
    kubectl delete pv $PV_NAME || echo "Failed to delete PV $PV_NAME, probably was not retained"
    echo "Old PV $PV_NAME deleted"
    
    echo "Deleting old volume $VOLUME_ID"
    aws ec2 delete-volume --volume-id $VOLUME_ID || echo "Failed to delete volume $VOLUME_ID, probably was not retained"
    echo "Old volume deleted"
    
    echo "Deleting snapshot $SNAPSHOT_ID"
    echo aws ec2 delete-snapshot --snapshot-id $SNAPSHOT_ID
    echo "Snapshot deleted"
    
    echo -e "Migration complete.\nNew PV: $NEW_PV_NAME\nNew PVC: $PVC_NAME"
    ```

### [Wireguard](wg-easy.md)

* New: [User management.](wireguard.md#user-management)

    Wireguard's default user management is not very user friendly as it's difficult to know which key belongs to what user.
    
    I've been looking for WireGuard admin interface UI that is actively maintained but also isn't cloud-based and [between all solutions](https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosted/comments/18nrbnf/wireguard_admin_interface_ui_that_is_actively/) I found [wg-easy](wg-easy.md) the best candidate because:
    
    - It has just the features I need:
      - Clean User management: add, remove, disable
      - Clean UI interface
    - Actively maintained: last commit 7h ago
    - [Really popular: 17.7k stars, 1.7k forks](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/tree/master)
    - It's installable either with docker or [docker-compose](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/blob/production/docker-compose.yml)
    - It exports [prometheus metrics](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/issues/1510)
    - It has [good documentation](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/wiki).
    - It has [an ansible playbook](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/wiki/Using-WireGuard-Easy-with-Ansible)
    - It has [a grafana dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/21733-wireguard/)
    - It has [a clean release process](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/tree/master)
    - It's a stable project: 3 years and 10 months old
    
    If `wg-easy` doesn't work, I'd look at the next projects:
    
    - [WGDashboard](https://github.com/donaldzou/WGDashboard?tab=readme-ov-file) ([Docs](https://donaldzou.dev/WGDashboard-Documentation/index_topic.html))
    - [easy-wg-quick](https://github.com/burghardt/easy-wg-quick)
    - [wireguard-ui](https://github.com/ngoduykhanh/wireguard-ui)
    - [wg-tool](https://github.com/gene-git/wg_tool) and [wg-client](https://github.com/gene-git/wg-client)

* New: [Introduce Rosenpass.](wireguard.md#rosenpass)

    Rosenpass is free and open-source software based on the latest research in the field of cryptography. It is intended to be used with WireGuard VPN, but can work with all software that uses pre-shared keys. It uses two cryptographic methods (Classic McEliece and Kyber) to secure systems against attacks with quantum computers.
    
    - [Source code](https://github.com/rosenpass/rosenpass)
    - [Docs](https://rosenpass.eu/docs/)

* New: [Add awesome wireguard link.](wireguard.md#references)

    - [Awesome wireguard](https://github.com/cedrickchee/awesome-wireguard)

* New: Introduce wg-easy.

    [`wg-easy`](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/tree/master) is the easiest way to install & manage WireGuard on any Linux hostthe easiest way to install & manage WireGuard on any Linux host
    
    Features:
    
    - All-in-one: WireGuard + Web UI.
    - Easy installation, simple to use.
    - List, create, edit, delete, enable & disable clients.
    - Show a client's QR code.
    - Download a client's configuration file.
    - Statistics for which clients are connected.
    - Tx/Rx charts for each connected client.
    - Gravatar support.
    - Automatic Light / Dark Mode
    - Multilanguage Support
    - One Time Links
    - Client Expiration
    - Prometheus metrics support
    - IPv6 support
    - CIDR support
    
    **[Installation](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)**
    
    **[With ansible](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/wiki/Using-WireGuard-Easy-with-Ansible)**
    
    **References**
    
    - [Source](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/tree/master)
    - [Docs](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy/wiki)

# Science

## Artificial Intelligence

### [Text to speech](text_to_speech.md)

* New: [Add link to Exploring the World of Open-Source Text-to-Speech Models article.](text_to_speech.md#references)

    - [Exploring the World of Open-Source Text-to-Speech Models](https://www.bentoml.com/blog/exploring-the-world-of-open-source-text-to-speech-models)
    diff --git a/docs/vim_plugin_development.md b/docs/vim_plugin_development.md
    index 8b70311a61..1fa882233a 100644
    --- a/docs/vim_plugin_development.md
    +++ b/docs/vim_plugin_development.md
    feat(vim_plugin_development): Explain how to load a plugin in a local directory with lazy
    
    You can manually edit those files to develop new feature or fix issues on the plugins. Or if you're developing them in a directory you can specify the `dir` directive in the lazy loading.